1. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 35319476
T1  - Patients' Experiences of Using a Smartphone App After Cardiac Rehabilitation: Qualitative Study.
A1  - Lunde, Pernille
A1  - Bye, Asta
A1  - Bruusgaard, Kari Anette
A1  - Hellem, Elisabet
A1  - Nilsson, Birgitta Blakstad
Y1  - 2022//
Y2  - 20220323//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation (CR) is a crucial part of the treatment of patients with cardiac diseases, and adherence to healthy behavior is a prerequisite to improve long-term prognosis. Unfortunately, adherence to healthy behavior adapted in CR is challenging for many cardiac patients in the long term. Recently, we demonstrated that follow-up conducted via an app for 1 year significantly improved adherence to healthy behavior after CR. To increase the knowledge and understanding of mobile Health (mHealth) interventions that can promote acceptance and adherence, qualitative research investigating patients' experiences with these interventions is warranted., OBJECTIVE: The aim was to investigate patient experiences with individualized long-term follow-up conducted via an app for 1 year and their thoughts about what features promoted adherence to healthy behavior after CR. The purpose was to increase the understanding of significant findings previously reported and to guide future development of similar interventions in the field of adherence., METHODS: A qualitative study with individual interviews was conducted from November 2018 to May 2019. A thematic interview guide was used when conducting the semistructured in-depth interviews. The interviews were audio recorded and transcribed successively during the period in which the interviews were conducted. Texts were managed and systematized by NVivo. Interviews were analyzed by qualitative content analysis. Codes and themes were inductively developed., RESULTS: Ten patients who had participated in a randomized controlled trial evaluating the effect of follow-up conducted via an app on adherence to healthy behavior after CR were included. The median patient age was 65 years (range 46-72 years), and both genders were represented. The analysis resulted in the following 4 themes describing the patients' experiences: (1) The person behind the app is crucial for motivation and adherence; (2) The app as a commitment; (3) The app as a path to independence; and (4) Suggestions for improvements. Features experienced as beneficial to promote adherence were individualized feedback and the use of goal setting. The significance of the person behind the app (the supervisor) who provided individualized feedback was a consistent finding. This person seemed to promote motivation in general and to enable other known behavioral change techniques., CONCLUSIONS: The person behind the app (the supervisor) seems to be one of the most significant success factors in promoting adherence to healthy behavior after CR. This indicates that a health care provider must actively participate in a patient's process of adherence to healthy behavior, even when using interventions, including an app. Future development of interventions in the field of adherence should strive to create tools that enable an ongoing collaborative relationship between the patient and the health care provider. The follow-up should be based on the patient's own goals, and individualized feedback should be provided. Copyright ©Pernille Lunde, Asta Bye, Kari Anette Bruusgaard, Elisabet Hellem, Birgitta Blakstad Nilsson. Originally published in JMIR Human Factors (https://humanfactors.jmir.org), 23.03.2022.
JF  - JMIR human factors
JA  - JMIR Hum Factors
VL  - 9
IS  - 1
SP  - e34294
CY  - Canada
M2  - Lunde, Pernille. Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, Oslo Metropolitan University, Oslo, Norway.
M2  - Bye, Asta. Department of Nursing and Health Promotion, Faculty of Health Sciences, Oslo Metropolitan University, Oslo, Norway.
M2  - Bye, Asta. European Palliative Care Research Centre, Department of Oncology, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
M2  - Bruusgaard, Kari Anette. Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, Oslo Metropolitan University, Oslo, Norway.
M2  - Hellem, Elisabet. Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, Oslo Metropolitan University, Oslo, Norway.
M2  - Nilsson, Birgitta Blakstad. Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, Oslo Metropolitan University, Oslo, Norway.
M2  - Nilsson, Birgitta Blakstad. Section for Physiotherapy, Division of Medicine, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
SN  - 2292-9495
SN  - 2292-9495
M1  - 101666561
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.2196/34294
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm&NEWS=N&AN=35319476
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm&AN=35319476 

2. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 35486437
T1  - Development and Effectiveness of a Mobile Health Intervention in Improving Health Literacy and Self-management of Patients With Multimorbidity and Heart Failure: Protocol for a Randomized Controlled Trial.
A1  - Bas-Sarmiento, Pilar
A1  - Fernandez-Gutierrez, Martina
A1  - Poza-Mendez, Miriam
A1  - Marin-Paz, Antonio Jesus
A1  - Paloma-Castro, Olga
A1  - Romero-Sanchez, Jose Manuel
A1  - ASyAG_PPIC Team
A2  - Cano-Guerrero JM, Carmona-Barrientos I, Carrasco-Bernal MA, Casado-Daza M, Castro-Yuste C, Crespo-Pinero J, Cuenca-Garcia M, DelARco-Herrera I, Diaz-deSouza; P, Diaz-Rodriguez M, Falcon-Romero M, Fernandez-Santos JR, Gallardo-Amaro L, Gomez-Jimenez MP, Gonzalez-Medina G, Hernandez-Encuentra E, Moreno-Corral LJ, Oliva-Ruiz P, Ordonez-Munoz FJ, Prieto-Garcia C, Ramon-Macias I, Rosety-Rodriguez M, Segura-Jimenez V, Vinolo-Gil MJ, Paramio-Cuevas JC, Ruiz-Carreira M, Sanchez-Sanchez E, Torres-Castano A, Yague-Sanchez JM
Y1  - 2022//
Y2  - 20220429//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Patients with multimorbidity and complex health needs are defined as a priority by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the European Union. There is a need to develop appropriate strategies with effective measures to meet the challenge of chronicity, reorienting national health systems. The increasing expansion of mobile health (mHealth) interventions in patient communication, the reduction of health inequalities, improved access to health care resources, adherence to treatment, and self-care of chronic diseases all point to an optimistic outlook. However, only few mobile apps demonstrate their effectiveness in these patients, which is diminished when they are not based on evidence, or when they are not designed by and for users with different levels of health literacy (HL)., OBJECTIVE: This study aims to evaluate the efficacy of an mHealth intervention relative to routine clinical practice in improving HL and self-management in patients with multimorbidity with heart failure (HF) and complex health needs., METHODS: This is a randomized, multicenter, blinded clinical trial evaluating 2 groups, namely, a control group (standard clinical practice) and an intervention group (standard clinical practice and an ad hoc designed mHealth intervention previously developed), for 12 months., RESULTS: The contents of the mHealth intervention will address user-perceived needs based on the development of user stories regarding diet, physical exercise, cardiac rehabilitation, therapeutic adherence, warning signs and symptoms, and emotional management. These contents have been validated by expert consensus. The creation and development of the contents of the mHealth intervention (app) took 18 months and was completed during 2021. The mobile app is expected to be developed by the end of 2022, after which it will be applied to the experimental group as an adjunct to standard clinical care during 12 months., CONCLUSIONS: The trial will demonstrate whether the mobile app improves HL and self-management in patients with HF and complex health needs, improves therapeutic adherence, and reduces hospital admissions. This study can serve as a starting point for developing other mHealth tools in other pathologies and for their generalization to other contexts., TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT04725526; https://tinyurl.com/bd8va27w., INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/35945. Copyright ©Pilar Bas-Sarmiento, Martina Fernandez-Gutierrez, Miriam Poza-Mendez, Antonio Jesus Marin-Paz, Olga Paloma-Castro, Jose Manuel Romero-Sanchez, ASyAG_PPIC Team. Originally published in JMIR Research Protocols (https://www.researchprotocols.org), 29.04.2022.
JF  - JMIR research protocols
JA  - JMIR Res Protoc
VL  - 11
IS  - 4
SP  - e35945
CY  - Canada
M2  - Bas-Sarmiento, Pilar. Institute of Research and Innovation in Biomedical Sciences of the Province of Cadiz (INiBICA), University of Cadiz, Cadiz, Spain.
M2  - Bas-Sarmiento, Pilar. Department of Nursing and Physiotherapy, University of Cadiz, Cadiz, Spain.
M2  - Fernandez-Gutierrez, Martina. Institute of Research and Innovation in Biomedical Sciences of the Province of Cadiz (INiBICA), University of Cadiz, Cadiz, Spain.
M2  - Fernandez-Gutierrez, Martina. Department of Nursing and Physiotherapy, University of Cadiz, Cadiz, Spain.
M2  - Poza-Mendez, Miriam. Department of Nursing and Physiotherapy, University of Cadiz, Cadiz, Spain.
M2  - Marin-Paz, Antonio Jesus. Department of Nursing and Physiotherapy, University of Cadiz, Cadiz, Spain.
M2  - Paloma-Castro, Olga. Department of Nursing and Physiotherapy, University of Cadiz, Cadiz, Spain.
M2  - Paloma-Castro, Olga. The University Research Institute for Sustainable Social Development (INDESS), Jerez de la Frontera, Spain.
M2  - Romero-Sanchez, Jose Manuel. Institute of Research and Innovation in Biomedical Sciences of the Province of Cadiz (INiBICA), University of Cadiz, Cadiz, Spain.
M2  - Romero-Sanchez, Jose Manuel. Department of Nursing and Physiotherapy, University of Cadiz, Cadiz, Spain.
M2  - Romero-Sanchez, Jose Manuel. The University Research Institute for Sustainable Social Development (INDESS), Jerez de la Frontera, Spain.
M2  - ASyAG_PPIC Team. See Acknowledgements, Cadiz, Spain.
SN  - 1929-0748
SN  - 1929-0748
M1  - 101599504
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.2196/35945
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm&NEWS=N&AN=35486437
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm&AN=35486437 

3. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 35211483
T1  - Process Evaluation of a Randomised Controlled Trial for TeleClinical Care, a Smartphone-App Based Model of Care.
A1  - Indraratna, Praveen
A1  - Biswas, Uzzal
A1  - Liu, Hueiming
A1  - Redmond, Stephen J
A1  - Yu, Jennifer
A1  - Lovell, Nigel H
A1  - Ooi, Sze-Yuan
Y1  - 2021//
Y2  - 20220208//
N2  - BACKGROUND: A novel smartphone app-based model of care (TeleClinical Care - TCC) for patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and heart failure (HF) was evaluated in a two-site, pilot randomised control trial of 164 participants in Sydney, Australia. The program included a telemonitoring system whereby abnormal blood pressure, weight and heart rate readings were monitored by a central clinical team, who subsequently referred clinically significant alerts to the patients' usual general practitioner (GP, also known as primary care physician in the United States), HF nurse or cardiologist. While the primary endpoint, 30-day readmissions, was neutral, intervention arm participants demonstrated improvements in readmission rates over 6 months, cardiac rehabilitation (CR) completion and medication compliance. A process evaluation was designed to identify contextual factors and mechanisms that influenced the results, as well as strategies of improving site and participant recruitment and the delivery of the intervention, for a planned larger effectiveness trial of over 1,000 patients across the state of New South Wales, Australia (TCC-Cardiac)., METHODS: Multiple data sources were used in this mixed-methods process evaluation, including interviews with four TCC team members, three GPs and three cardiologists. CR completion rates, HF outreach service (HFOS) referrals and cardiologist follow-up appointments were audited. A patient questionnaire was also analysed for evidence of improved self-care as a hypothesised mechanism of the TCC app. An implementation research logic model was used to synthesise our findings., RESULTS: Rates of HFOS referral (83 vs. 72%) and cardiologist follow-up (96 vs. 93%) were similarly high in the intervention and control arms, respectively. Team members were largely positive towards their orientation and training, but highlighted several implementation strategies that could be optimised for TCC-Cardiac: streamlining of the enrolment process, improving the reach of the trial by screening patients in non-cardiac wards, and ensuring team members had adequate time to recruit (>15 h per week). GPs and cardiologists viewed the intervention acceptably regarding potential benefit of closely monitoring, and responding to abnormalities for their patients, though there were concerns of the potential additional workload generated by alerts that did not merit clinical intervention. Clear delineation of which clinician (GP or cardiologist) was primarily responsible for alert management was also recommended, as well as a preference to receive regular summary data. Several patients commented on the mechanisms of improved self-management because of TCC, which could have led to the outcome of improved medication compliance., DISCUSSION: Use of TCC was associated with several benefits, including higher patient engagement and completion rates with CR. The conduct and delivery of TCC-Cardiac will be improved by the findings of this process evaluation to optimise recruitment, and establishing the roles of GPs and cardiologists as part of the model. Copyright © 2022 Indraratna, Biswas, Liu, Redmond, Yu, Lovell and Ooi.
JF  - Frontiers in medicine
JA  - Front Med (Lausanne)
VL  - 8
SP  - 780882
CY  - Switzerland
M2  - Indraratna, Praveen. Department of Cardiology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
M2  - Indraratna, Praveen. Prince of Wales Clinical School, University of New South Wales (UNSW), Sydney, NSW, Australia.
M2  - Biswas, Uzzal. Graduate School of Biomedical Engineering, University of New South Wales (UNSW), Sydney, NSW, Australia.
M2  - Liu, Hueiming. Centre for Health Systems Science, The George Institute for Global Health, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
M2  - Redmond, Stephen J. Graduate School of Biomedical Engineering, University of New South Wales (UNSW), Sydney, NSW, Australia.
M2  - Redmond, Stephen J. School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
M2  - Yu, Jennifer. Department of Cardiology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
M2  - Yu, Jennifer. Prince of Wales Clinical School, University of New South Wales (UNSW), Sydney, NSW, Australia.
M2  - Lovell, Nigel H. Graduate School of Biomedical Engineering, University of New South Wales (UNSW), Sydney, NSW, Australia.
M2  - Lovell, Nigel H. Tyree Institute of Health Engineering, University of New South Wales (UNSW), Sydney, NSW, Australia.
M2  - Ooi, Sze-Yuan. Department of Cardiology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
M2  - Ooi, Sze-Yuan. Prince of Wales Clinical School, University of New South Wales (UNSW), Sydney, NSW, Australia.
M2  - Ooi, Sze-Yuan. Tyree Institute of Health Engineering, University of New South Wales (UNSW), Sydney, NSW, Australia.
SN  - 2296-858X
SN  - 2296-858X
M1  - 101648047
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fmed.2021.780882
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm&NEWS=N&AN=35211483
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm&AN=35211483 

4. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 34386155
T1  - Effects of Supervised Exercise-Based Telerehabilitation on Walk Test Performance and Quality of Life in Patients in India With Chronic Disease: Combatting Covid-19.
A1  - Patel, Jaini
A1  - Franklin, Barry A
A1  - Pujary, Disha
A1  - Kaur, Gagandeep
A1  - Deodhar, Ankita
A1  - Kharbanda, Sakshi
A1  - Contractor, Aashish
Y1  - 2021//
Y2  - 20210622//
N2  - BACKGROUND: The world is currently undergoing a pandemic, caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus (COVID-19). According to the World Health Organization, patients with chronic illnesses appear to be at the highest risk for COVID-19 associated sequelae. Inability to participate in outpatient-based rehabilitation programs and being home-bound can increase the risk for and potential worsening of chronic health conditions. This study evaluated the short-term effects of telerehabilitation on patients' walk test performance and health related quality of life (HRQoL)., METHODS: 47 patients (23 cardiovascular, 15 pulmonary, 9 oncology) participated in the telerehabilitation program. At baseline and following a 1-month intervention, patients had their 6-minute walk test distance (6MWTD) and HRQoL assessed. Average daily step counts were measured by the PACER App., CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that a short-term, supervised virtual telerehabilitation program had significant positive effects on 6MWTD and HRQoL in cardiac, pulmonary and oncology patients during COVID-19. Copyright © 2021 Jaini Patel, Barry A. Franklin, Disha Pujary, Gagandeep Kaur, Ankita Deodhar, Sakshi Kharbanda, Aashish Contractor.
JF  - International journal of telerehabilitation
JA  - Int J Telerehabil
VL  - 13
IS  - 1
SP  - e6349
CY  - United States
M2  - Patel, Jaini. Department of Rehabilitation and Sports Medicine, Sir H.N. Reliance Foundation Hospital and Research Center, Mumbai, India.
M2  - Franklin, Barry A. Department of Preventive Cardiology and Cardiac Rehabilitation, Beaumont Health, Royal OAK, Michigan, USA.
M2  - Franklin, Barry A. Department of Internal Medicine, Oakland University William Beaumont School of Medicine, Michigan, USA.
M2  - Pujary, Disha. Department of Rehabilitation and Sports Medicine, Sir H.N. Reliance Foundation Hospital and Research Center, Mumbai, India.
M2  - Kaur, Gagandeep. Department of Rehabilitation and Sports Medicine, Sir H.N. Reliance Foundation Hospital and Research Center, Mumbai, India.
M2  - Deodhar, Ankita. Department of Rehabilitation and Sports Medicine, Sir H.N. Reliance Foundation Hospital and Research Center, Mumbai, India.
M2  - Kharbanda, Sakshi. Department of Rehabilitation and Sports Medicine, Sir H.N. Reliance Foundation Hospital and Research Center, Mumbai, India.
M2  - Contractor, Aashish. Department of Rehabilitation and Sports Medicine, Sir H.N. Reliance Foundation Hospital and Research Center, Mumbai, India.
SN  - 1945-2020
SN  - 1945-2020
M1  - 101604321
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.5195/ijt.2021.6349
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm&NEWS=N&AN=34386155
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm&AN=34386155 

5. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 32742066
T1  - Evaluation of mHealth Applications Related to Cardiovascular Diseases: a Systematic Review.
A1  - Villarreal, Vladimir
A1  - Berbey-Alvarez, Aranzazu
Y1  - 2020//
N2  - INTRODUCTION: Currently, with the widespread penetration of mobile devices with Internet access, including smartphones, they can allow specific and/or complementary activities in the health field as well as in other commercial sectors., AIM: This systematic review examined the impact of mHealth-based for cardiovascular research. The specific aims of the systematic review are to (1) classification of the studies according to the type of research (scientific articles and master's and doctoral theses) and (2) relationship of studies with topics associated with cardiovascular diseases., RESULTS: This review corresponds to information in scientific journals of high impact. This review intends to respond to the following question: How these research works have evaluated the performance of health mobile applications, with a special interest in cardiac issues? This review of these searches corresponds to an analysis by 14 categories, being these: 1) Scientific paper; 2) Doctoral Thesis; 3) Master thesis; 4) Telemedicine; 5) m-sssshealth, e-health; 6) cardiovascular, coronary diseases, heart failures, cardiopulmonary, cardiac rehabilitation; 7) rural health; 8) prevention and control, protection; 9) wearables; 10) mobile, web applications, app, smartphone, software, platform; 11) mhealth education, training, promotion, formative process; 12) self-management; 13) Multiple Vital Sign Monitoring, medical device, heart rate measurement, health care information systems; 14) health regulatory. It provides evidence of how some apps have been evaluated, and in some cases, the effectiveness of the estimated accuracy is not in line with the real situation., CONCLUSION: The analysis of these studies allows us to locate the sources of the development of mobile health projects. It also guides us to discover some needs that require new technology implementations. Copyright © 2020 Vladimir Villarreal, Aranzazu Berbey-Alvarez.
JF  - Acta informatica medica : AIM : journal of the Society for Medical Informatics of Bosnia & Herzegovina : casopis Drustva za medicinsku informatiku BiH
JA  - Acta inform. med.
VL  - 28
IS  - 2
SP  - 130
EP  - 137
CY  - Bosnia and Herzegovina
M2  - Villarreal, Vladimir. Computer Systems Engineering Department, Technological University of Panama, El Dorado, Panama City, Republic of Panama.
M2  - Villarreal, Vladimir. Research Group in Emerging Computational Technologies, Technological University of Panama, El Dorado, Panama City, Republic of Panama.
M2  - Berbey-Alvarez, Aranzazu. Technological University of Panama, El Dorado, Panama City, Republic of Panama.
SN  - 0353-8109
SN  - 0353-8109
M1  - 101147064
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.5455/aim.2020.28.130-137
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm&NEWS=N&AN=32742066
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm&AN=32742066 

6. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 31768261
T1  - Effects of individualized follow-up with a smartphone-application after cardiac rehabilitation: protocol of a randomized controlled trial.
A1  - Lunde, Pernille
A1  - Bye, Asta
A1  - Bergland, Astrid
A1  - Nilsson, Birgitta Blakstad
Y1  - 2019//
Y2  - 20191121//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Cardiac rehabilitation (CR) programs are evidence-based and widely recommended. However, benefits from CR are likely lost among individuals who discontinue their regular exercise routines and healthy habits. One possible approach to enhance adherence to lifestyle advice after completion of CR, may be individualized follow-up enabled by a smartphone application (app)., METHODS: A protocol of a single-blinded, pragmatic randomized controlled trial. The study will take place in the eastern part of Norway, and will include heart patients who have completed CR. Participants will be recruited from two CR centers. Based on power calculation, 113 participants will be included. The intervention group will receive individualized follow-up through an app on a weekly basis throughout a year. The app will be set up with the participant's own goals, and the follow-up will be based on these individual goals. The control group will receive usual care, including general advice regarding physical activity, exercise and diet. The participants will be assessed at baseline (at completion of CR) and 12 months after baseline. Primary outcome of the study will be peak oxygen uptake. Secondary outcomes include exercise performance, quality of life, health status, health literacy, self-perceived goal achievement, exercise habits, body weight, blood pressure as well as lipids and triglycerides., DISCUSSION: To our knowledge, this will be the first study to examine the effects of individualized follow-up with an app for one year, in patients completing CR. Hence, it is reasonable to assume that the study may be groundbreaking. Due to the large sample size and the theoretically based intervention, the study has the potential to generate new knowledge that may improve the design of future technology-based follow-up interventions of patients that have completed rehabilitation., TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov. NCT03174106. First registration, 19/05/2017. Copyright © The Author(s). 2019.
JF  - BMC sports science, medicine & rehabilitation
JA  - BMC Sports Sci Med Rehabil
VL  - 11
SP  - 34
CY  - England
M2  - Lunde, Pernille. 1Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, OsloMet - Oslo Metropolitan University, PB 4, St. Olavs plass, 0130 Oslo, Norway.
M2  - Bye, Asta. 2Department of Nursing and Health Promotion, Faculty of Health Sciences, OsloMet - Oslo Metropolitan University, Oslo, Norway.
M2  - Bye, Asta. 3Regional Advisory Unit for Palliative Care, Department of Oncology, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
M2  - Bergland, Astrid. 1Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, OsloMet - Oslo Metropolitan University, PB 4, St. Olavs plass, 0130 Oslo, Norway.
M2  - Nilsson, Birgitta Blakstad. 1Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, OsloMet - Oslo Metropolitan University, PB 4, St. Olavs plass, 0130 Oslo, Norway.
M2  - Nilsson, Birgitta Blakstad. 4Section for Physiotherapy, Division of Medicine, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
SN  - 2052-1847
SN  - 2052-1847
M1  - 101605016
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s13102-019-0148-2
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm&NEWS=N&AN=31768261
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm&AN=31768261 

7. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 35037891
T1  - The Impact of a Mobile App on Participation in Cardiac Rehabilitation and Understanding Barriers to Success: Comparative Cohort Study.
A1  - Rivers, John T
A1  - Smith, Carla
A1  - Smith, Ian
A1  - Cameron, James
Y1  - 2022//
Y2  - 20220117//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Poor patient uptake of cardiac rehabilitation (CR) remains a challenge for multiple reasons including geographic, time, cultural, cost, and psychological constraints., OBJECTIVE: We evaluated the impact on CR participation rates associated with the addition of the option of mobile app-based CR (Cardihab) for patients declining conventional CR., METHODS: A total of 204 consecutive patients were offered CR following angioplasty; of these, 99 were in cohort 1 (offered conventional CR only) and 105 were in cohort 2 (app-based CR offered to those declining conventional CR). Patients in each cohort were followed throughout a 6-week CR program and participation rates were compared for both groups. Patients in cohort 2 declining both forms of CR were interviewed to assess reasons for nonparticipation., RESULTS: CR participation improved from 21% (95% CI 14%-30%) to 63% (95% CI 53%-71%) with the addition of the app (P<.001). Approximately 25% (9/39) of the group declining the app-based program identified technology issues as the reason for nonparticipation. The remainder declined both CR programs or were ineligible due to frailty or comorbidities., CONCLUSIONS: Providing patients with the additional option of an app-based CR program substantially improved CR participation. Technology and psychological barriers can limit CR participation. Further innovation in CR delivery systems is required to improve uptake. Copyright ©John T Rivers, Carla Smith, Ian Smith, James Cameron. Originally published in JMIR Cardio (https://cardio.jmir.org), 17.01.2022.
JF  - JMIR cardio
JA  - JMIR Cardio
VL  - 6
IS  - 1
SP  - e24174
CY  - Canada
M2  - Rivers, John T. Queensland Cardiovascular Group, St Andrew's Specialist Centre, Brisbane, Australia.
M2  - Rivers, John T. St Andrew's War Memorial Hospital, Brisbane, Australia.
M2  - Rivers, John T. St Vincent's Private Hospital Northside, Brisbane, Australia.
M2  - Smith, Carla. Queensland Cardiovascular Group, St Andrew's Specialist Centre, Brisbane, Australia.
M2  - Smith, Ian. St Andrew's War Memorial Hospital, Brisbane, Australia.
M2  - Cameron, James. Queensland Cardiovascular Group, St Andrew's Specialist Centre, Brisbane, Australia.
M2  - Cameron, James. St Andrew's War Memorial Hospital, Brisbane, Australia.
SN  - 2561-1011
SN  - 2561-1011
M1  - 101718325
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.2196/24174
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm&NEWS=N&AN=35037891
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm&AN=35037891 

8. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 35265897
T1  - Why digital health trials can fail: Lessons learned from a randomized trial of health coaching and virtual cardiac rehabilitation.
A1  - Olivier, Christoph B
A1  - Middleton, Stephanie K
A1  - Purington, Natasha
A1  - Shashidhar, Sumana
A1  - Hereford, Jody
A1  - Mahaffey, Kenneth W
A1  - Turakhia, Mintu P
Y1  - 2021//
Y2  - 20210209//
N2  - Background: We performed a trial to evaluate the efficacy of a blended intervention with personalized health coaching and virtual cardiac rehabilitation to improve medication adherence and risk factors. The trial was terminated early. Here, we describe findings from a root cause analysis and lessons learned., Methods: SmartGUIDE was an open-label, single-center trial that randomized participants with coronary artery disease who were prescribed a statin and/or P2Y12 inhibitor 1:1 to either usual care or the added use of a mobile app with components of cardiac rehabilitation paired with personal virtual coaching. The primary outcome was medication adherence: proportion of days covered (PDC). The planned sample size was 132. We performed a root cause analysis to evaluate processes from study development to closure., Results: During trial conduct, the technology start-up withdrew the intervention. The study was terminated early with 63 participants randomized and data from 26 available for analysis. The median PDC was high in both groups (intervention group 94%, interquartile range [IQR] 88%-96%; control group: 99%, IQR 95%-100%). Root cause analysis identified factors for not achieving trial objectives: key factors that limited enrollment (inclusion criteria, low penetration of compatible smartphones), participant retention or engagement (poor app product, insufficient technology support), and suboptimal choice of a technology partner (technology start-up's inexperience in health care, poor product design, inadequate fundraising)., Conclusion: We identified important and preventable factors leading to trial failure. These factors may be common across digital health trials and may explain prior observations that many such trials are never completed. Careful vetting of technology partners and more pragmatic study designs may prevent these missteps.
JF  - Cardiovascular digital health journal
JA  - Cardiovasc Digit Health J
VL  - 2
IS  - 2
SP  - 101
EP  - 108
CY  - United States
M2  - Olivier, Christoph B. Stanford Center for Clinical Research, Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California.
M2  - Olivier, Christoph B. Center for Digital Health, Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California.
M2  - Olivier, Christoph B. Department of Cardiology and Angiology I, Heart Center Freiburg University, Faculty of Medicine, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
M2  - Middleton, Stephanie K. Stanford Center for Clinical Research, Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California.
M2  - Purington, Natasha. Quantitative Sciences Unit, Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California.
M2  - Shashidhar, Sumana. Stanford Center for Clinical Research, Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California.
M2  - Hereford, Jody. Hereford Consulting, Boulder, CO.
M2  - Mahaffey, Kenneth W. Stanford Center for Clinical Research, Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California.
M2  - Turakhia, Mintu P. Center for Digital Health, Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California.
M2  - Turakhia, Mintu P. Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California.
M2  - Turakhia, Mintu P. Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, California.
SN  - 2666-6936
SN  - 2666-6936
M1  - 101771268
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cvdhj.2021.01.003
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm&NEWS=N&AN=35265897
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm&AN=35265897 

9. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 34878987
T1  - A Smartphone App (AnSim) With Various Types and Forms of Messages Using the Transtheoretical Model for Cardiac Rehabilitation in Patients With Coronary Artery Disease: Development and Usability Study.
A1  - Choi, Jah Yeon
A1  - Kim, Ji Bak
A1  - Lee, Sunki
A1  - Lee, Seo-Joon
A1  - Shin, Seung Eon
A1  - Park, Se Hyun
A1  - Park, Eun Jin
A1  - Kim, Woohyeun
A1  - Na, Jin Oh
A1  - Choi, Cheol Ung
A1  - Rha, Seung-Woon
A1  - Park, Chang Gyu
A1  - Seo, Hong Seog
A1  - Ahn, Jeonghoon
A1  - Jeong, Hyun-Ghang
A1  - Kim, Eung Ju
Y1  - 2021//
Y2  - 20211207//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Despite strong evidence of clinical benefit, cardiac rehabilitation (CR) programs are currently underutilized and smartphone-based CR strategies are thought to address this unmet need. However, data regarding the detailed process of development are scarce., OBJECTIVE: This study focused on the development of a smartphone-based, patient-specific, messaging app for patients who have undergone percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI)., METHODS: The AnSim app was developed in collaboration with a multidisciplinary team that included cardiologists, psychiatrists, nurses, pharmacists, nutritionists, and rehabilitation doctors and therapists. First, a focus group interview was conducted, and the narratives of the patients were analyzed to identify their needs and preferences. Based on the results, health care experts and clinicians drafted messages into 5 categories: (1) general information regarding cardiovascular health and medications, (2) nutrition, (3) physical activity, (4) destressing, and (5) smoking cessation. In each category, 90 messages were developed according to 3 simplified steps of the transtheoretical model of behavioral change: (1) precontemplation, (2) contemplation and preparation, and (3) action and maintenance. After an internal review and feedback from potential users, a bank of 450 messages was developed., RESULTS: The focus interview was conducted with 8 patients with PCI within 1 year, and 450 messages, including various forms of multimedia, were developed based on the transtheoretical model of behavioral change in each category. Positive feedback was obtained from the potential users (n=458). The mean Likert scale score was 3.95 (SD 0.39) and 3.91 (SD 0.39) for readability and usefulness, respectively, and several messages were refined based on the feedback. Finally, the patient-specific message delivery system was developed according to the baseline characteristics and stages of behavioral change in each participant., CONCLUSIONS: We developed an app (AnSim), which includes a bank of 450 patient-specific messages, that provides various medical information and CR programs regarding coronary heart disease. The detailed process of multidisciplinary collaboration over the course of the study provides a scientific basis for various medical professionals planning smartphone-based clinical research. Copyright ©Jah Yeon Choi, Ji Bak Kim, Sunki Lee, Seo-Joon Lee, Seung Eon Shin, Se Hyun Park, Eun Jin Park, Woohyeun Kim, Jin Oh Na, Cheol Ung Choi, Seung-Woon Rha, Chang Gyu Park, Hong Seog Seo, Jeonghoon Ahn, Hyun-Ghang Jeong, Eung Ju Kim. Originally published in JMIR Medical Informatics (https://medinform.jmir.org), 07.12.2021.
JF  - JMIR medical informatics
JA  - JMIR Med Inform
VL  - 9
IS  - 12
SP  - e23285
CY  - Canada
M2  - Choi, Jah Yeon. Cardiovascular Center, Korea University Guro Hospital, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Kim, Ji Bak. Cardiovascular Center, Korea University Guro Hospital, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Lee, Sunki. Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine, Hallym University Dongtan Sacred Heart Hospital, Dongtan, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Lee, Seo-Joon. Department of Medical Informatics, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Shin, Seung Eon. Cardiovascular Center, Korea University Guro Hospital, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Park, Se Hyun. Sports Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Park, Eun Jin. Cardiovascular Center, Korea University Guro Hospital, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Kim, Woohyeun. Cardiovascular Center, Korea University Guro Hospital, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Na, Jin Oh. Cardiovascular Center, Korea University Guro Hospital, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Choi, Cheol Ung. Cardiovascular Center, Korea University Guro Hospital, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Rha, Seung-Woon. Cardiovascular Center, Korea University Guro Hospital, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Park, Chang Gyu. Cardiovascular Center, Korea University Guro Hospital, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Seo, Hong Seog. Cardiovascular Center, Korea University Guro Hospital, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Ahn, Jeonghoon. Department of Health Convergence, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Jeong, Hyun-Ghang. Department of Psychiatry, Korea University Guro Hospital, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Kim, Eung Ju. Sports Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
SN  - 2291-9694
M1  - 101645109
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.2196/23285
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm&NEWS=N&AN=34878987
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm&AN=34878987 

10. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 35135963
T1  - A Structured Review of Commercially Available Cardiac Rehabilitation mHealth Applications Using the Mobile Application Rating Scale.
A1  - Meddar, John M
A1  - Ponnapalli, Aditya
A1  - Azhar, Rimsha
A1  - Turchioe, Meghan Reading
A1  - Duran, Andrea Tiana
A1  - Creber, Ruth Masterson
Y1  - 2022//
Y2  - 20220208//
N2  - PURPOSE: This study systematically evaluated the quality and functionalities of patient-facing, commercially available mobile health (mHealth) apps for cardiac rehabilitation (CR)., METHODS: We performed our search in two of the most widely used commercial mobile app stores: Apple iTunes Appstore and Google Play Store (Android apps). Six search terms were used to query relevant CR apps: "cardiac rehabilitation," "heart disease and remote therapy," "heart failure exercise," "heart therapy and cardiac recovery," "cardiac recovery," and "heart therapy." App quality was evaluated using the Mobile Application Rating Scale (MARS). App functionality was evaluated using the IQVIA functionality scale, and app content was evaluated against the American Heart Association guidelines for CR. Apps meeting our inclusion criteria were downloaded and evaluated by two to three reviewers, and interclass correlations between reviewers were calculated., RESULTS: We reviewed 3121 apps and nine apps met our inclusion criteria. On average, the apps scored a 3.0 on the MARS (5-point Likert scale) for overall quality. The two top-ranking mHealth apps for CR for all three quality, functionality, and consistency with evidence-based guidelines were My Cardiac Coach and Love My Heart for Women, both of which scored >=4.0 for behavior change., CONCLUSION: Overall, the quality and functionality of free apps for mobile CR was high, with two apps performing the best across all three quality categories. High-quality CR apps are available that can expand access to CR for patients with cardiovascular disease. Copyright © 2022 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation
KW  - Delivery of Health Care
KW  - Exercise
KW  - Female
KW  - Humans
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - *Telemedicine
JF  - Journal of cardiopulmonary rehabilitation and prevention
JA  - J Mol Signal
VL  - 42
IS  - 3
SP  - 141
EP  - 147
CY  - United States
M2  - Meddar, John M. Department of Population Health Sciences, New York University Grossman School of Medicine, New York (Mr Meddar); Department of Population Health Sciences, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, New York (Mr Ponnapalli, Ms Azhar, and Drs Turchioe and Creber); and Center for Behavioral Cardiovascular Health, Columbia Irving Medical Center, New York, New York (Dr Duran).
SN  - 1932-751X
SN  - 1932-7501
M1  - 101291247
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1097/HCR.0000000000000667
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=medl&NEWS=N&AN=35135963
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=medl&AN=35135963 

11. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 35037588
T1  - The feasibility of smartphone-based application on cardiac rehabilitation for Chinese patients with percutaneous coronary intervention in Macau: a qualitative evaluation.
A1  - Lao, Sarah Sio Wa
A1  - Chair, Sek Ying
Y1  - 2022//
N2  - BACKGROUND: To improve cardiovascular risk factors modification and effects of cardiac rehabilitation (CR), electronic applications on CR are suggested in the literature for patients after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI)., METHODS: A sequential qualitative study, embedded in a quantitative experimental trial for mHealth application on CR (mCR) study evaluation, was conducted to understand the usability and satisfaction of mCR study. Purposive sampling were used until achieving data saturation. Individually semi-structured interviews were conducted. The textual narration from interview transcriptions were analysed by content analysis., RESULTS: Ten participants were interviewed for qualitative evaluation. Findings presented the perceptive and experience of the mCR app users. Results were captured by four themes: 1. feasibility of mCR app, including practicality, acceptability and convenience, and barriers to use; 2. benefits from mCR app, explaining the effectiveness of mCR study; 3. advocator for better hospital care, disclosing an extension of healthcare and promoting patient-healthcarer relationship; and 4. recommendation for mCR app improvement., CONCLUSION: Findings provided insights for cardiac healthcare providers to understand the feasibility of mHealth application on phase II CR in Macau. The mCR app facilitated CR engagement which contributed to health and well-being by promoting CHD and CR knowledge, and cardiac healthy lifestyle modification.
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation
KW  - Feasibility Studies
KW  - Humans
KW  - Macau
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - *Percutaneous Coronary Intervention
KW  - Smartphone
JF  - International journal of qualitative studies on health and well-being
JA  - Int J Qual Stud Health Well-being
VL  - 17
IS  - 1
SP  - 2023940
CY  - United States
M2  - Lao, Sarah Sio Wa. Department of Nursing, Kiang Wu Hospital, Macau SAR, China.
M2  - Chair, Sek Ying. Graduate Division, the Nethersole School of Nursing, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.
SN  - 1748-2631
SN  - 1748-2623
M1  - 101256506
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17482631.2021.2023940
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=medl&NEWS=N&AN=35037588
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=medl&AN=35037588 

12. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 34266323
T1  - A novel model of home-based, patient-tailored and mobile application-guided cardiac telerehabilitation in patients with atrial fibrillation: A randomised controlled trial.
A1  - Cai, Cheng
A1  - Bao, Zhipeng
A1  - Wu, Nan
A1  - Wu, Fengming
A1  - Sun, Guozhen
A1  - Yang, Gang
A1  - Chen, Minglong
Y1  - 2022//
Y2  - 20210716//
N2  - OBJECTIVE: To assess the effectiveness of tele-monitored cardiac rehabilitation in patients who have undergone ablation for atrial fibrillation., DESIGN: Single-centre, prospective, assessment-blinded, randomised controlled trial., SETTING: Domiciliary rehabilitation with support from a tertiary care hospital., SUBJECTS: One hundred patients who underwent ablation for atrial fibrillation were recruited., INTERVENTIONS: Participants were randomly allocated to a 12-week standard rehabilitation treatment (control group) or a comprehensive, domiciliary, mobile application-guided and tele-monitored cardiac rehabilitation program (intervention group) in a 1:1 fashion., MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary endpoint was the improvement in VO2peak. The secondary outcomes included adherence, physical activity, beliefs related to cardiovascular disease and exercise self-efficacy., RESULTS: Ninety-seven patients completed follow-up. The mean VO2peak increased significantly in both the intervention group (n = 49) (baseline vs 12 weeks: 19.1 +/- 4.7 vs 27.3 +/- 5.6 ml/(min kg), P < 0.01) and the control group (n = 48) (baseline vs 12 weeks: 18.7 +/- 4.9 vs 22.9 +/- 6.3 ml/(min kg), P < 0.01). The results of the between-group analysis of aerobic capacity were significantly in favour of the intervention group. During the 12-week program, patients in the intervention group exhibited better adherence than those in the control group. Moreover, self-reported physical activity improved more in the intervention group than in the control group, as did the beliefs related to cardiovascular disease and exercise self-efficacy (all P < 0.01)., CONCLUSIONS: Our domiciliary, mobile application-guided and tele-monitored cardiac rehabilitation program could lead to a more significant improvements in physical fitness, adherence and health beliefs than standard cardiac rehabilitation in patients who have undergone ablation for atrial fibrillation.
KW  - *Atrial Fibrillation
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation
KW  - Exercise Therapy
KW  - Humans
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - Prospective Studies
KW  - Quality of Life
KW  - *Telerehabilitation
JF  - Clinical rehabilitation
JA  - Clin Rehabil
VL  - 36
IS  - 1
SP  - 40
EP  - 50
CY  - England
M2  - Cai, Cheng. Department of Cardiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
M2  - Bao, Zhipeng. Department of Cardiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
M2  - Wu, Nan. Department of Cardiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
M2  - Wu, Fengming. Department of Cardiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
M2  - Sun, Guozhen. Department of Cardiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
M2  - Yang, Gang. Department of Cardiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
M2  - Chen, Minglong. Department of Cardiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
SN  - 1477-0873
SN  - 0269-2155
M1  - cr7, 8802181
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1177/02692155211032372
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=medl&NEWS=N&AN=34266323
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=medl&AN=34266323 

13. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 34676252
T1  - Chinese Home-Based Cardiac Rehabilitation Model Delivered by Smartphone Interaction Improves Clinical Outcomes in Patients With Coronary Heart Disease.
A1  - Ma, Jing
A1  - Ge, Cheng
A1  - Shi, Yajun
A1  - Xu, Yong
A1  - Zhao, Chenghui
A1  - Gao, Ling
A1  - Wen, Dongling
A1  - Li, Tengjing
A1  - Wang, Jinli
A1  - Yan, Sherry
A1  - Smith, Sidney C Jr
A1  - Chen, Yundai
Y1  - 2021//
Y2  - 20211005//
N2  - Purpose: We evaluated the long-term effect of a smartphone-facilitated home-based cardiac rehabilitation (HBCR) model in revascularized patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) on major adverse cardiac events (MACE), and secondary outcomes, including safety, quality of life, and physical capacity. Methods: It was a prospective observational cohort study including a total of 335 CHD patients after successful percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) referred to the CR clinic in China between July 23, 2015 and March 1, 2018. Patients were assigned to two groups: HBCR tailored by monitoring and telecommunication via smartphone app (WeChat) (HBCR group, n = 170) or usual care (control group, n = 165), with follow-up for up to 42 months. Propensity score matching was conducted to match patients in the HBCR group with those in the control group. The patients in the HBCR group received educational materials weekly and individualized exercise prescription monthly, and the control group only received 20-min education at baseline in the CR clinic. The primary outcome was MACE, analyzed by Cox regression models. The changes in the secondary outcomes were analyzed by paired t-test among the matched cohort. Results: One hundred thirty-five HBCR patients were matched with the same number of control patients. Compared to the control group, the HBCR group had a much lower incidence of MACE (1.5 vs. 8.9%, p = 0.002), with adjusted HR = 0.21, 95% CI 0.07-0.85, and also had reduced unscheduled readmission (9.7 vs. 23.0%, p = 0.002), improved exercise capacity [maximal METs (6.2 vs. 5.1, p = 0.002)], higher Seattle Angina Questionnaire score, and better control of risk factors. Conclusions: The Chinese HBCR model using smartphone interaction is a safe and effective approach to decrease cardiovascular risks of patients with CHD and improve patients' wellness. Clinical Trial Registration: http://www.chictr.org.cn, identifier: ChiCTR1800015042. Copyright © 2021 Ma, Ge, Shi, Xu, Zhao, Gao, Wen, Li, Wang, Yan, Smith and Chen.
JF  - Frontiers in cardiovascular medicine
JA  - Front. cardiovasc. med.
VL  - 8
SP  - 731557
CY  - Switzerland
M2  - Ma, Jing. Department of Cardiology, First Medical Center of Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) General Hospital, Beijing, China.
M2  - Ge, Cheng. Department of Cardiology, First Medical Center of Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) General Hospital, Beijing, China.
M2  - Shi, Yajun. Department of Cardiology, First Medical Center of Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) General Hospital, Beijing, China.
M2  - Xu, Yong. Department of Cardiology, First Medical Center of Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) General Hospital, Beijing, China.
M2  - Zhao, Chenghui. Department of Cardiology, First Medical Center of Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) General Hospital, Beijing, China.
M2  - Gao, Ling. Department of Cardiology, First Medical Center of Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) General Hospital, Beijing, China.
M2  - Wen, Dongling. Department of Cardiology, First Medical Center of Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) General Hospital, Beijing, China.
M2  - Li, Tengjing. Department of Cardiology, First Medical Center of Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) General Hospital, Beijing, China.
M2  - Wang, Jinli. Department of Cardiology, First Medical Center of Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) General Hospital, Beijing, China.
M2  - Yan, Sherry. Center of Health System Research, Sutter Health, Walnut Creek, CA, United States.
M2  - Smith, Sidney C Jr. Heart and Vascular Center, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, United States.
M2  - Chen, Yundai. Department of Cardiology, First Medical Center of Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) General Hospital, Beijing, China.
SN  - 2297-055X
SN  - 2297-055X
M1  - 101653388
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fcvm.2021.731557
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm5&NEWS=N&AN=34676252
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm5&AN=34676252 

14. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 34473064
T1  - Applying Mobile Technology to Sustain Physical Activity After Completion of Cardiac Rehabilitation: Acceptability Study.
A1  - Elnaggar, Abdelaziz
A1  - von Oppenfeld, Julia
A1  - Whooley, Mary A
A1  - Merek, Stephanie
A1  - Park, Linda G
Y1  - 2021//
Y2  - 20210902//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Many patients do not meet the recommended levels of physical activity after completing a cardiac rehabilitation (CR) program. Wearable activity trackers and mobile phone apps are promising potential self-management tools for maintaining physical activity after CR completion., OBJECTIVE: This study aims to evaluate the acceptability of a wearable device, mobile app, and push messages to facilitate physical activity following CR completion., METHODS: We used semistructured interviews to assess the acceptability of various mobile technologies after participation in a pilot randomized controlled trial. Intervention patients in the randomized controlled trial wore the Fitbit Charge 2, used the Movn mobile app, and received push messages on cardiovascular disease prevention and physical activity for over 2 months. We asked 26 intervention group participants for feedback about their experience with the technology and conducted semistructured individual interviews with 7 representative participants. We used thematic analysis to create the main themes from individual interviews., RESULTS: Our sample included participants with a mean age of 66.7 (SD 8.6) years; 23% (6/26) were female. Overall, there were varying levels of satisfaction with different technology components. There were 7 participants who completed the satisfaction questionnaires and participated in the interviews. The Fitbit and Movn mobile app received high satisfaction scores of 4.86 and 4.5, respectively, whereas push messages had a score of 3.14 out of 5. We identified four main themes through the interviews: technology use increased motivation to be physically active, technology use served as a reminder to be physically active, recommendations for technology to improve user experience, and desire for personal feedback., CONCLUSIONS: By applying a wearable activity tracker, mobile phone app, and push messages, our study showed strong potential for the adoption of new technologies by older adults to maintain physical activity after CR completion. Future research should include a larger sample over a longer period using a mixed methods approach to assess the efficacy of technology use for promoting long-term physical activity behavior in older adults. Copyright ©Abdelaziz Elnaggar, Julia von Oppenfeld, Mary A Whooley, Stephanie Merek, Linda G Park. Originally published in JMIR Human Factors (https://humanfactors.jmir.org), 02.09.2021.
JF  - JMIR human factors
JA  - JMIR Hum Factors
VL  - 8
IS  - 3
SP  - e25356
CY  - Canada
M2  - Elnaggar, Abdelaziz. Department of Community Health Systems, School of Nursing, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, United States.
M2  - von Oppenfeld, Julia. Veterans Affairs Medical Center, San Francisco, CA, United States.
M2  - Whooley, Mary A. Veterans Affairs Medical Center, San Francisco, CA, United States.
M2  - Whooley, Mary A. Department of Medicine, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, United States.
M2  - Whooley, Mary A. Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, United States.
M2  - Merek, Stephanie. Veterans Affairs Medical Center, San Francisco, CA, United States.
M2  - Park, Linda G. Department of Community Health Systems, School of Nursing, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, United States.
M2  - Park, Linda G. Veterans Affairs Medical Center, San Francisco, CA, United States.
SN  - 2292-9495
SN  - 2292-9495
M1  - 101666561
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.2196/25356
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm5&NEWS=N&AN=34473064
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm5&AN=34473064 

15. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 34255660
T1  - MI-PACE Home-Based Cardiac Telerehabilitation Program for Heart Attack Survivors: Usability Study.
A1  - Ding, Eric Y
A1  - Erskine, Nathaniel
A1  - Stut, Wim
A1  - McManus, David D
A1  - Peterson, Amy
A1  - Wang, Ziyue
A1  - Escobar Valle, Jorge
A1  - Albuquerque, Daniella
A1  - Alonso, Alvaro
A1  - Botkin, Naomi F
A1  - Pack, Quinn R
A1  - McManus, David D
Y1  - 2021//
Y2  - 20210708//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Cardiac rehabilitation programs, consisting of exercise training and disease management interventions, reduce morbidity and mortality after acute myocardial infarction., OBJECTIVE: In this pilot study, we aimed to developed and assess the feasibility of delivering a health watch-informed 12-week cardiac telerehabilitation program to acute myocardial infarction survivors who declined to participate in center-based cardiac rehabilitation., METHODS: We enrolled patients hospitalized after acute myocardial infarction at an academic medical center who were eligible for but declined to participate in center-based cardiac rehabilitation. Each participant underwent a baseline exercise stress test. Participants received a health watch, which monitored heart rate and physical activity, and a tablet computer with an app that displayed progress toward accomplishing weekly walking and exercise goals. Results were transmitted to a cardiac rehabilitation nurse via a secure connection. For 12 weeks, participants exercised at home and also participated in weekly phone counseling sessions with the nurse, who provided personalized cardiac rehabilitation solutions and standard cardiac rehabilitation education. We assessed usability of the system, adherence to weekly exercise and walking goals, counseling session attendance, and disease-specific quality of life., RESULTS: Of 18 participants (age: mean 59 years, SD 7) who completed the 12-week telerehabilitation program, 6 (33%) were women, and 6 (33%) had ST-elevation myocardial infarction. Participants wore the health watch for a median of 12.7 hours (IQR 11.1, 13.8) per day and completed a median of 86% of exercise goals. Participants , on average, walked 121 minutes per week (SD 175) and spent 189 minutes per week (SD 210) in their target exercise heart rate zone. Overall, participants found the system to be highly usable (System Usability Scale score: median 83, IQR 65, 100)., CONCLUSIONS: This pilot study established the feasibility of delivering cardiac telerehabilitation at home to acute myocardial infarction survivors via a health watch-based program and telephone counseling sessions. Usability and adherence to health watch use, exercise recommendations, and counseling sessions were high. Further studies are warranted to compare patient outcomes and health care resource utilization between center-based rehabilitation and telerehabilitation. Copyright ©Eric Y Ding, Nathaniel Erskine, Wim Stut, David D McManus, Amy Peterson, Ziyue Wang, Jorge Escobar Valle, Daniella Albuquerque, Alvaro Alonso, Naomi F Botkin, Quinn R Pack, David D McManus. Originally published in JMIR Human Factors (https://humanfactors.jmir.org), 08.07.2021.
JF  - JMIR human factors
JA  - JMIR Hum Factors
VL  - 8
IS  - 3
SP  - e18130
CY  - Canada
M2  - Ding, Eric Y. Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA, United States.
M2  - Erskine, Nathaniel. Department of Anesthesiology, Duke University, Durham, NC, United States.
M2  - Stut, Wim. Philips Research, Eindhoven, Netherlands.
M2  - McManus, David D. Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA, United States.
M2  - Peterson, Amy. University of Massachusetts Memorial Marlborough Hospital, Marlborough, MA, United States.
M2  - Wang, Ziyue. Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA, United States.
M2  - Escobar Valle, Jorge. MaineHealth Cardiology, Maine Medical Center, Augusta, ME, United States.
M2  - Albuquerque, Daniella. Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA, United States.
M2  - Alonso, Alvaro. Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA, United States.
M2  - Botkin, Naomi F. Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA, United States.
M2  - Pack, Quinn R. Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA, United States.
M2  - McManus, David D. Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA, United States.
SN  - 2292-9495
SN  - 2292-9495
M1  - 101666561
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.2196/18130
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm5&NEWS=N&AN=34255660
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm5&AN=34255660 

16. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 33861204
T1  - Mobile Health Intervention Promoting Physical Activity in Adults Post Cardiac Rehabilitation: Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial.
A1  - Park, Linda G
A1  - Elnaggar, Abdelaziz
A1  - Lee, Sei J
A1  - Merek, Stephanie
A1  - Hoffmann, Thomas J
A1  - Von Oppenfeld, Julia
A1  - Ignacio, Nerissa
A1  - Whooley, Mary A
Y1  - 2021//
Y2  - 20210416//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Cardiac rehabilitation (CR) is an exercise-based program prescribed after cardiac events associated with improved physical, mental, and social functioning; however, many patients return to a sedentary lifestyle leading to deteriorating functional capacity after discharge from CR. Physical activity (PA) is critical to avoid recurrence of cardiac events and mortality and maintain functional capacity. Leveraging mobile health (mHealth) strategies to increase adherence to PA is a promising approach. Based on the social cognitive theory, we sought to determine whether mHealth strategies (Movn mobile app for self-monitoring, supportive push-through messages, and wearable activity tracker) would improve PA and functional capacity over 2 months., OBJECTIVE: The objectives of this pilot randomized controlled trial were to examine preliminary effects of an mHealth intervention on group differences in PA and functional capacity and group differences in depression and self-efficacy to maintain exercise after CR., METHODS: During the final week of outpatient CR, patients were randomized 1:1 to the intervention group or usual care. The intervention group downloaded the Movn mobile app, received supportive push-through messages on motivation and educational messages related to cardiovascular disease (CVD) management 3 times per week, and wore a Charge 2 (Fitbit Inc) activity tracker to track step counts. Participants in the usual care group wore a pedometer and recorded their daily steps in a diary. Data from the 6-minute walk test (6MWT) and self-reported questionnaires were collected at baseline and 2 months., RESULTS: We recruited 60 patients from 2 CR sites at a community hospital in Northern California. The mean age was 68.0 (SD 9.3) years, and 23% (14/60) were female; retention rate was 85% (51/60). Our results from 51 patients who completed follow-up showed the intervention group had a statistically significant higher mean daily step count compared with the control (8860 vs 6633; P=.02). There was no difference between groups for the 6MWT, depression, or self-efficacy to maintain exercise., CONCLUSIONS: This intervention addresses a major public health initiative to examine the potential for mobile health strategies to promote PA in patients with CVD. Our technology-based pilot mHealth intervention provides promising results on a pragmatic and contemporary approach to promote PA by increasing daily step counts after completing CR., TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03446313; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03446313. Copyright ©Linda G Park, Abdelaziz Elnaggar, Sei J Lee, Stephanie Merek, Thomas J Hoffmann, Julia Von Oppenfeld, Nerissa Ignacio, Mary A Whooley. Originally published in JMIR Formative Research (http://formative.jmir.org), 16.04.2021.
JF  - JMIR formative research
JA  - JMIR Form Res
VL  - 5
IS  - 4
SP  - e20468
CY  - Canada
M2  - Park, Linda G. Department of Community Health Systems, School of Nursing, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, United States.
M2  - Park, Linda G. San Francisco Department of Veterans Affairs Health Care System, San Francisco, CA, United States.
M2  - Elnaggar, Abdelaziz. Department of Community Health Systems, School of Nursing, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, United States.
M2  - Elnaggar, Abdelaziz. San Francisco Department of Veterans Affairs Health Care System, San Francisco, CA, United States.
M2  - Lee, Sei J. Division of Geriatrics, School of Medicine, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, United States.
M2  - Merek, Stephanie. San Francisco Department of Veterans Affairs Health Care System, San Francisco, CA, United States.
M2  - Hoffmann, Thomas J. Institute for Human Genetics, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, United States.
M2  - Von Oppenfeld, Julia. San Francisco Department of Veterans Affairs Health Care System, San Francisco, CA, United States.
M2  - Ignacio, Nerissa. San Francisco Department of Veterans Affairs Health Care System, San Francisco, CA, United States.
M2  - Whooley, Mary A. Departments of Medicine and Epidemiology & Biostatistics, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, United States.
SN  - 2561-326X
SN  - 2561-326X
M1  - 101726394
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.2196/20468
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm5&NEWS=N&AN=33861204
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm5&AN=33861204 

17. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 33141091
T1  - A Behavioral Change Smartphone App and Program (ToDo-CR) to Decrease Sedentary Behavior in Cardiac Rehabilitation Participants: Prospective Feasibility Cohort Study.
A1  - Freene, Nicole
A1  - van Berlo, Sander
A1  - McManus, Margaret
A1  - Mair, Tarryn
A1  - Davey, Rachel
Y1  - 2020//
Y2  - 20201103//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Cardiac rehabilitation participants are encouraged to meet physical activity guidelines to reduce the risk of repeat cardiac events. However, previous studies have found that physical activity levels are low and sedentary behavior is high, both during and after cardiac rehabilitation. There is potential for smartphone apps to be effective in reducing sedentary behavior, although among the few studies that have investigated smartphone apps in cardiac rehabilitation, none targeted sedentary behavior., OBJECTIVE: This study aims to evaluate the feasibility of a behavioral smartphone app (Vire) and a web-based behavior change program (ToDo-CR) to decrease sedentary behavior in cardiac rehabilitation participants., METHODS: Using a single-center, pre-post design, participants were recruited by nursing staff on admission to cardiac rehabilitation. All eligible participants installed the Vire app, were given a Fitbit Flex, and received the 6-week ToDo-CR program while attending cardiac rehabilitation. The ToDo-CR program uses personalized analytics to interpret important behavioral aspects (physical activity, variety, and social opportunity) and real-time information for generating and suggesting context-specific actionable microbehavioral alternatives (Do's). Do's were delivered via the app, with participants receiving 14 to 19 Do's during the 6-week intervention period. Outcome measures were collected at 0, 6, and 16 weeks. The assessors were not blinded. Feasibility outcomes included recruitment and follow-up rates, resource requirements, app usability (Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology 2 [UTAUT2] questionnaire), and objectively measured daily minutes of sedentary behavior (ActiGraph) for sample size estimation. Secondary outcomes included functional aerobic capacity (6-min walk test), quality of life (MacNew Heart Disease Health-Related Quality of Life Questionnaire), anxiety and depression (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale questionnaire), BMI, waist circumference, waist-to-hip ratio, and blood pressure., RESULTS: Between January and May 2019, 20 participants were recruited consecutively. One-third of people who commenced cardiac rehabilitation were eligible to participate. Other than declining to take part in the study (15/40, 38%), not having a smartphone was a major reason for exclusion (11/40, 28%). Those excluded without a smartphone were significantly older than participants with a smartphone (mean difference 20 [SD 5] years; P<.001). Participants were, on average, aged 54 (SD 13) years, mostly male (17/20, 85%), and working (12/20, 67%). At 6 weeks, 95% (19/20) of participants were assessed, and 60% (12/20) of participants were assessed at 16 weeks. Participants were relatively satisfied with the usability of the app (UTAUT2 questionnaire). Overall, participants spent 11 to 12 hours per day sitting. There was a medium effect size (Cohen d=0.54) for the reduction in sedentary behavior (minutes per day) over 16 weeks., CONCLUSIONS: The use of a behavioral smartphone app to decrease sitting time appears to be feasible in cardiac rehabilitation. A larger randomized controlled trial is warranted to determine the effectiveness of the app. Copyright ©Nicole Freene, Sander van Berlo, Margaret McManus, Tarryn Mair, Rachel Davey. Originally published in JMIR Formative Research (http://formative.jmir.org), 03.11.2020.
JF  - JMIR formative research
JA  - JMIR Form Res
VL  - 4
IS  - 11
SP  - e17359
CY  - Canada
M2  - Freene, Nicole. Physiotherapy, University of Canberra, Bruce, Australia.
M2  - Freene, Nicole. Health Research Institute, University of Canberra, Bruce, Australia.
M2  - van Berlo, Sander. Onmi BV, Eindhoven, Netherlands.
M2  - McManus, Margaret. Cardiology, Canberra Health Services, Garran, Australia.
M2  - Mair, Tarryn. Exercise Physiology, Canberra Health Services, Garran, Australia.
M2  - Davey, Rachel. Health Research Institute, University of Canberra, Bruce, Australia.
SN  - 2561-326X
SN  - 2561-326X
M1  - 101726394
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.2196/17359
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm5&NEWS=N&AN=33141091
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm5&AN=33141091 

18. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 32812886
T1  - Promoting Physical Activity With Self-Tracking and Mobile-Based Coaching for Cardiac Surgery Patients During the Discharge-Rehabilitation Gap: Protocol for a Randomized Controlled Trial.
A1  - Zhang, Chao
A1  - Soliman-Hamad, Mohamed
A1  - Robijns, Roxanne
A1  - Verberkmoes, Niels
A1  - Verstappen, Frank
A1  - IJsselsteijn, Wijnand A
Y1  - 2020//
Y2  - 20200819//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Home-based cardiac rehabilitations (CRs) with digital technologies have been researched and implemented to replace, augment, and complement traditional center-based CR in recent years with considerable success. One problem that technology-enhanced home-based CR can potentially address is the gap between cardiac interventions and formal CR programs. In the Netherlands and some other countries (eg, Australia), patients after cardiac interventions stay at home for 3-4 weeks without much support from their physicians, and often engage in very little physical activity (PA). A home-based exercise program enabled by digital technologies may help patients to better prepare for the later center-based CR programs, potentially increasing the uptake rate of those programs., OBJECTIVE: In a randomized controlled trial (RCT), we will evaluate the effectiveness of a home-based walking exercise program enhanced by self-tracking and mobile-based coaching (treatment condition), comparing it with a version of the same program without these technologies (control condition). The added value of the digital technologies is justified if patients in the treatment group walk more steps on average (primary outcome) and show better physical fitness in a bicycle ergometer test and higher self-efficacy toward PA (secondary outcomes)., METHODS: Based on a power analysis, we will recruit 100 cardiac patients and assign them evenly to the 2 parallel groups. Eligible patients are those who are scheduled in the postanesthesia care unit, know the Dutch language, have basic literacy of using smartphones, and are without medical conditions that may increase risks associated with PA. In a face-to-face meeting with a nurse practitioner, all patients are prescribed a 3-week exercise program at home (2 walking exercises per day with increasing duration), based on national and international guidelines and tailored to their physical conditions after cardiac intervention. Their physical activities (daily steps) will be measured by the Axivity AX3 accelerometer worn at hip position. Patients in the treatment group will also be supported by a Neo Health One self-tracking device and a mobile platform called Heart Angel, through which they are monitored and coached by their nurses. After the study, all patients will perform a bicycle ergometer test and return the devices within 1 week. In addition, 5 questionnaires will be sent to the patients by emails to assess their self-efficacy toward PA and other psychological states for exploratory analyses (at discharge, at the end of each monitoring week, and 1 week after the study). To minimize bias, the randomization procedure will be performed after introducing the exercise program, so the nurse practitioners are blind to the experimental conditions until that point., RESULTS: The study protocol has been approved by the Medical Research Ethics Committees United on February 26, 2018 (NL 62142.100.17/R17.51). By the end of 2018, we completed a small pilot study with 8 patients and the results based on interviews and app usage data suggest that a larger clinical trial with the targeted population is feasible. We expect to complete the RCT by the end of 2021, and statistical analyses will follow., CONCLUSIONS: Results of the RCT will help us to test the hypothesized benefits of self-tracking and mobile-based coaching for cardiac patients in home-based exercise programs during the discharge-rehabilitation gap. If the results are positive, cost-effectiveness analysis will be performed based on the insights of the study to inform the translation of the technology-enhanced program to clinical practice. We also note limitations of the trial in the discussion., TRIAL REGISTRATION: Registered at Netherlands Trial Register NL8040; https://www.trialregister.nl/trial/8040., INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): PRR1-10.2196/16737. Copyright ©Chao Zhang, Mohamed Soliman-Hamad, Roxanne Robijns, Niels Verberkmoes, Frank Verstappen, Wijnand A IJsselsteijn. Originally published in JMIR Research Protocols (http://www.researchprotocols.org), 19.08.2020.
JF  - JMIR research protocols
JA  - JMIR Res Protoc
VL  - 9
IS  - 8
SP  - e16737
CY  - Canada
M2  - Zhang, Chao. Eindhoven University of Technology, Eindhoven, Netherlands.
M2  - Soliman-Hamad, Mohamed. Catharina Ziekenhuis Eindhoven, Eindhoven, Netherlands.
M2  - Robijns, Roxanne. Scamander, Utrecht, Netherlands.
M2  - Verberkmoes, Niels. Catharina Ziekenhuis Eindhoven, Eindhoven, Netherlands.
M2  - Verstappen, Frank. Catharina Ziekenhuis Eindhoven, Eindhoven, Netherlands.
M2  - IJsselsteijn, Wijnand A. Eindhoven University of Technology, Eindhoven, Netherlands.
SN  - 1929-0748
SN  - 1929-0748
M1  - 101599504
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.2196/16737
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm5&NEWS=N&AN=32812886
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm5&AN=32812886 

19. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 32348270
T1  - A Mobile Health Intervention System for Women With Coronary Heart Disease: Usability Study.
A1  - Sengupta, Avijit
A1  - Beckie, Theresa
A1  - Dutta, Kaushik
A1  - Dey, Arup
A1  - Chellappan, Sriram
Y1  - 2020//
Y2  - 20200603//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the leading cause of death and disability among American women. The prevalence of CHD is expected to increase by more than 40% by 2035. In 2015, the estimated cost of caring for patients with CHD was US $182 billion in the United States; hospitalizations accounted for more than half of the costs. Compared with men, women with CHD or those who have undergone coronary revascularization have up to 30% more rehospitalizations within 30 days and up to 1 year. Center-based cardiac rehabilitation is the gold standard of care after an acute coronary event, but few women attend these valuable programs. Effective home-based interventions for improving cardiovascular health among women with CHD are vital for addressing this gap in care., OBJECTIVE: The ubiquity of mobile phones has made mobile health (mHealth) behavioral interventions a viable option to improve healthy behaviors of both women and men with CHD. First, this study aimed to examine the usability of a prototypic mHealth intervention designed specifically for women with CHD (herein referred to as HerBeat). Second, we examined the influence of HerBeat on selected health behaviors (self-efficacy for diet, exercise, and managing chronic illness) and psychological (perceived stress and depressive symptoms) characteristics of the participants., METHODS: Using a single-group, pretest, posttest design, 10 women participated in the 12-week usability study. Participants were provided a smartphone and a smartwatch on which the HerBeat app was installed. Using a web portal dashboard, a health coach monitored participants' ecological momentary assessment data, their behavioral data, and their heart rate and step count. Participants then completed a 12-week follow-up assessment., RESULTS: All 10 women (age: mean 64.4 years, SD 6.3 years) completed the study. The usability and acceptability of HerBeat were good, with a mean system usability score of 83.60 (SD 16.3). The participants demonstrated statistically significant improvements in waist circumference (P=.048), weight (P=.02), and BMI (P=.01). Furthermore, depressive symptoms, measured with the Patient Health Questionnaire-9, significantly improved from baseline (P=.04)., CONCLUSIONS: The mHealth prototype was feasible and usable for women with CHD. Participants provided data that were useful for further development of HerBeat. The mHealth intervention is expected to help women with CHD self-manage their health behaviors. A randomized controlled trial is needed to further verify the findings. Copyright ©Avijit Sengupta, Theresa Beckie, Kaushik Dutta, Arup Dey, Sriram Chellappan. Originally published in JMIR Formative Research (http://formative.jmir.org), 03.06.2020.
JF  - JMIR formative research
JA  - JMIR Form Res
VL  - 4
IS  - 6
SP  - e16420
CY  - Canada
M2  - Sengupta, Avijit. Information Systems and Decision Sciences, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, United States.
M2  - Beckie, Theresa. College of Nursing, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, United States.
M2  - Dutta, Kaushik. Information Systems and Decision Sciences, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, United States.
M2  - Dey, Arup. College of Engineering, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, United States.
M2  - Chellappan, Sriram. College of Engineering, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, United States.
SN  - 2561-326X
SN  - 2561-326X
M1  - 101726394
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.2196/16420
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm5&NEWS=N&AN=32348270
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm5&AN=32348270 

20. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 35225819
T1  - A Smartphone-Based Model of Care to Support Patients With Cardiac Disease Transitioning From Hospital to the Community (TeleClinical Care): Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial.
A1  - Indraratna, Praveen
A1  - Biswas, Uzzal
A1  - McVeigh, James
A1  - Mamo, Andrew
A1  - Magdy, Joseph
A1  - Vickers, Dominic
A1  - Watkins, Elaine
A1  - Ziegl, Andreas
A1  - Liu, Hueiming
A1  - Cholerton, Nicholas
A1  - Li, Joan
A1  - Holgate, Katie
A1  - Fildes, Jennifer
A1  - Gallagher, Robyn
A1  - Ferry, Cate
A1  - Jan, Stephen
A1  - Briggs, Nancy
A1  - Schreier, Guenter
A1  - Redmond, Stephen J
A1  - Loh, Eugene
A1  - Yu, Jennifer
A1  - Lovell, Nigel H
A1  - Ooi, Sze-Yuan
Y1  - 2022//
Y2  - 20220228//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Patients hospitalized with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) or heart failure (HF) are frequently readmitted. This is the first randomized controlled trial of a mobile health intervention that combines telemonitoring and education for inpatients with ACS or HF to prevent readmission., OBJECTIVE: This study aims to investigate the feasibility, efficacy, and cost-effectiveness of a smartphone app-based model of care (TeleClinical Care [TCC]) in patients discharged after ACS or HF admission., METHODS: In this pilot, 2-center randomized controlled trial, TCC was applied at discharge along with usual care to intervention arm participants. Control arm participants received usual care alone. Inclusion criteria were current admission with ACS or HF, ownership of a compatible smartphone, age >=18 years, and provision of informed consent. The primary end point was the incidence of unplanned 30-day readmissions. Secondary end points included all-cause readmissions, cardiac readmissions, cardiac rehabilitation completion, medication adherence, cost-effectiveness, and user satisfaction. Intervention arm participants received the app and Bluetooth-enabled devices for measuring weight, blood pressure, and physical activity daily plus usual care. The devices automatically transmitted recordings to the patients' smartphones and a central server. Thresholds for blood pressure, heart rate, and weight were determined by the treating cardiologists. Readings outside these thresholds were flagged to a monitoring team, who discussed salient abnormalities with the patients' usual care providers (cardiologists, general practitioners, or HF outreach nurses), who were responsible for further management. The app also provided educational push notifications. Participants were followed up after 6 months., RESULTS: Overall, 164 inpatients were randomized (TCC: 81/164, 49.4%; control: 83/164, 50.6%; mean age 61.5, SD 12.3 years; 130/164, 79.3% men; 128/164, 78% admitted with ACS). There were 11 unplanned 30-day readmissions in both groups (P=.97). Over a mean follow-up of 193 days, the intervention was associated with a significant reduction in unplanned hospital readmissions (21 in TCC vs 41 in the control arm; P=.02), including cardiac readmissions (11 in TCC vs 25 in the control arm; P=.03), and higher rates of cardiac rehabilitation completion (20/51, 39% vs 9/49, 18%; P=.03) and medication adherence (57/76, 75% vs 37/74, 50%; P=.002). The average usability rating for the app was 4.5/5. The intervention cost Aus $6028 (US $4342.26) per cardiac readmission saved. When modeled in a mainstream clinical setting, enrollment of 237 patients was projected to have the same expenditure compared with usual care, and enrollment of 500 patients was projected to save approximately Aus $100,000 (approximately US $70,000) annually., CONCLUSIONS: TCC was feasible and safe for inpatients with either ACS or HF. The incidence of 30-day readmissions was similar; however, long-term benefits were demonstrated, including fewer readmissions over 6 months, improved medication adherence, and improved cardiac rehabilitation completion., TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry ACTRN12618001547235; https://www.anzctr.org.au/Trial/Registration/TrialReview.aspx?id=375945. Copyright ©Praveen Indraratna, Uzzal Biswas, James McVeigh, Andrew Mamo, Joseph Magdy, Dominic Vickers, Elaine Watkins, Andreas Ziegl, Hueiming Liu, Nicholas Cholerton, Joan Li, Katie Holgate, Jennifer Fildes, Robyn Gallagher, Cate Ferry, Stephen Jan, Nancy Briggs, Guenter Schreier, Stephen J Redmond, Eugene Loh, Jennifer Yu, Nigel H Lovell, Sze-Yuan Ooi. Originally published in JMIR mHealth and uHealth (https://mhealth.jmir.org), 28.02.2022.
KW  - Adolescent
KW  - Australia
KW  - Female
KW  - *Heart Diseases
KW  - Hospitals
KW  - Humans
KW  - Male
KW  - Middle Aged
KW  - Pilot Projects
KW  - *Smartphone
JF  - JMIR mHealth and uHealth
JA  - JMIR Mhealth Uhealth
VL  - 10
IS  - 2
SP  - e32554
CY  - Canada
M2  - Indraratna, Praveen. Department of Cardiology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, Australia.
M2  - Indraratna, Praveen. Prince of Wales Clinical School, UNSW Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Biswas, Uzzal. Graduate School of Biomedical Engineering, UNSW Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - McVeigh, James. Department of Cardiology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, Australia.
M2  - Mamo, Andrew. Department of Cardiology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, Australia.
M2  - Magdy, Joseph. Department of Cardiology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, Australia.
M2  - Magdy, Joseph. Department of Cardiology, The Sutherland Hospital, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Vickers, Dominic. Department of Cardiology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, Australia.
M2  - Watkins, Elaine. Department of Cardiology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, Australia.
M2  - Ziegl, Andreas. Center for Health and Bioresources, Austrian Institute of Technology, Graz, Austria.
M2  - Liu, Hueiming. The George Institute for Global Health, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Cholerton, Nicholas. Department of Cardiology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, Australia.
M2  - Li, Joan. Department of Cardiology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, Australia.
M2  - Holgate, Katie. Department of Cardiology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, Australia.
M2  - Fildes, Jennifer. Department of Cardiology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, Australia.
M2  - Gallagher, Robyn. Susan Wakil School of Nursing and Midwifery, Charles Perkins Centre, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Ferry, Cate. National Heart Foundation of Australia, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Jan, Stephen. The George Institute for Global Health, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Briggs, Nancy. Stats Central, Mark Wainwright Analytical Centre, UNSW Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Schreier, Guenter. Center for Health and Bioresources, Austrian Institute of Technology, Graz, Austria.
M2  - Redmond, Stephen J. Graduate School of Biomedical Engineering, UNSW Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Redmond, Stephen J. School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
M2  - Loh, Eugene. Department of Cardiology, The Sutherland Hospital, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Yu, Jennifer. Department of Cardiology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, Australia.
M2  - Yu, Jennifer. Prince of Wales Clinical School, UNSW Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Lovell, Nigel H. Graduate School of Biomedical Engineering, UNSW Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Ooi, Sze-Yuan. Department of Cardiology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, Australia.
M2  - Ooi, Sze-Yuan. Prince of Wales Clinical School, UNSW Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
SN  - 2291-5222
SN  - 2291-5222
M1  - 101624439
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.2196/32554
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med20&NEWS=N&AN=35225819
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med20&AN=35225819 

21. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 31112461
T1  - Smartphone-based systems for physical rehabilitation applications: A systematic review.
A1  - Moral-Munoz, Jose A
A1  - Zhang, Wenjuan
A1  - Cobo, Manuel J
A1  - Herrera-Viedma, Enrique
A1  - Kaber, David B
Y1  - 2021//
Y2  - 20190521//
N2  - Tele-(remote) rehabilitation is attracting increased attention from society, including the research community and commercial marketplace with an estimated global market value of $160 billion. Meanwhile, mobile device-based healthcare ("mHealth") has appeared as a revolutionary approach to tele-rehabilitation practice. This paper presents a systematic review of the literature on smartphone-based systems designed for remote facilitation of physical rehabilitation. A total of 74 documents from Web of Science search results were reviewed. Systems were classified based on target medical conditions, and a taxonomy of technology was created along with identification of monitored activities. Beyond monitoring, some systems also provide patient-caregiver communication and progress management functions. The review identifies major research interests in stroke, cardiac disease, balance impairment and joint/limb rehabilitation; however, there is a lack of attention to other diseases. There are also few systems that have computerized existing clinical tests. On the basis of the review, design recommendations are formulated to encourage implementation of advanced functionalities, usability considerations, and system validation based on clinical evidence. Results of this study may help researchers and companies to design functions and interactions of smartphone-based rehabilitation systems or to select technology.
KW  - Computers, Handheld
KW  - Humans
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - Smartphone
KW  - Telemedicine/mt [Methods]
KW  - *Telemedicine
KW  - *Telerehabilitation
JF  - Assistive technology : the official journal of RESNA
JA  - Assist Technol
VL  - 33
IS  - 4
SP  - 223
EP  - 236
CY  - United States
M2  - Moral-Munoz, Jose A. Dept. of Nursing and Physiotherapy, University of Cadiz, Cadiz, Spain.
M2  - Moral-Munoz, Jose A. Institute of Research and Innovation in Biomedical Sciences of the Province of Cadiz (INiBICA), University of Cadiz, Cadiz, Spain.
M2  - Zhang, Wenjuan. Dept. of Industrial & Systems Engineering, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina, USA.
M2  - Cobo, Manuel J. Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Cadiz, Cadiz, Spain.
M2  - Herrera-Viedma, Enrique. Dept. of Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence, University of Granada, Granada, Spain.
M2  - Kaber, David B. Dept. of Industrial & Systems Engineering, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina, USA.
SN  - 1949-3614
SN  - 1040-0435
M1  - bcf, 8917250
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10400435.2019.1611676
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med20&NEWS=N&AN=31112461
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med20&AN=31112461 

22. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 34657825
T1  - Outcomes of a smartphone-based application with live health-coaching post-percutaneous coronary intervention.
A1  - Paruchuri, Kaavya
A1  - Finneran, Phoebe
A1  - Marston, Nicholas A
A1  - Healy, Emma W
A1  - Andreo, John Jr
A1  - Lynch, Ryan
A1  - Blood, Alexander J
A1  - Jones-O'Connor, Maeve
A1  - Lander, Bradley
A1  - Kelly, Noreen
A1  - Vivaldi, Maria T
A1  - Traynor, Kate
A1  - Wiviott, Stephen
A1  - Natarajan, Pradeep
Y1  - 2021//
Y2  - 20211014//
N2  - BACKGROUND: The interval between inpatient hospitalization for symptomatic coronary artery disease (CAD) and post-discharge office consultation is a vulnerable period for adverse events., METHODS: Content was customized on a smartphone app-based platform for hospitalized patients receiving percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) which included education, tracking, reminders and live health coaches. We conducted a single-arm open-label pilot study of the app at two academic medical centers in a single health system, with subjects enrolled 02/2018-05/2019 and 1:3 propensity-matched historical controls from 01/2015-12/2017. To evaluate feasibility and efficacy, we assessed 30-day hospital readmission (primary), outpatient cardiovascular follow-up, and cardiac rehabilitation (CR) enrollment as recorded in the health system. Outcomes were assessed by Cox Proportional Hazards model., FINDINGS: 118 of 324 eligible (36.4%) 21-85 year-old patients who underwent PCI for symptomatic CAD who owned a smartphone or tablet enrolled. Mean age was 62.5 (9.7) years, 87 (73.7%) were male, 40 of 118 (33.9%) had type 2 diabetes mellitus, 68 (57.6%) enrolled underwent PCI for MI and 59 (50.0%) had previously known CAD; demographics were similar among matched historical controls. No significant difference existed in all-cause readmission within 30 days (8.5% app vs 9.6% control, ARR -1.1% absolute difference, 95% CI -7.1-4.8, p = 0.699) or 90 days (16.1% app vs 19.5% control, p = 0.394). Rates of both 90-day CR enrollment (HR 1.99, 95% CI 1.30-3.06) and 1-month cardiovascular follow up (HR 1.83, 95% CI 1.43-2.34) were greater with the app. Weekly engagement at 30- and 90-days, as measured by percentage of weeks with at least one day of completion of tasks, was mean (SD) 73.5% (33.9%) and 63.5% (40.3%). Spearman correlation analyses indicated similar engagement across age, sex, and cardiovascular risk factors., INTERPRETATIONS: A post-PCI smartphone app with live health coaches yielded similarly high engagement across demographics and safely increased attendance in cardiac rehabilitation. Larger prospective randomized controlled trials are necessary to test whether this app improves cardiovascular outcomes following PCI., FUNDING: National Institutes of Health, Boston Scientific., CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT03416920 (https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03416920). Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
KW  - Adult
KW  - Aged
KW  - Aged, 80 and over
KW  - *Coronary Artery Disease/th [Therapy]
KW  - Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2/th [Therapy]
KW  - Female
KW  - Humans
KW  - Male
KW  - *Mentoring/mt [Methods]
KW  - Middle Aged
KW  - Mobile Applications
KW  - Patient Discharge
KW  - *Percutaneous Coronary Intervention/is [Instrumentation]
KW  - *Percutaneous Coronary Intervention/mt [Methods]
KW  - Pilot Projects
KW  - Smartphone
JF  - EBioMedicine
JA  - EBioMedicine
VL  - 72
SP  - 103593
CY  - Netherlands
M2  - Paruchuri, Kaavya. Cardiovascular Research Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, 185 Cambridge Street, CPZN 3.184, Boston, MA 02114, United States; Cardiovascular Disease Prevention Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, United States; Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, United States; Program in Medical and Population Genetics and Cardiovascular Disease Initiative, Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, MA, United States.
M2  - Finneran, Phoebe. Cardiovascular Research Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, 185 Cambridge Street, CPZN 3.184, Boston, MA 02114, United States.
M2  - Marston, Nicholas A. Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston MA, United States.
M2  - Healy, Emma W. Cardiovascular Research Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, 185 Cambridge Street, CPZN 3.184, Boston, MA 02114, United States; Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, NY, United States.
M2  - Andreo, John Jr. Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston MA, United States.
M2  - Lynch, Ryan. Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston MA, United States.
M2  - Blood, Alexander J. Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston MA, United States.
M2  - Jones-O'Connor, Maeve. Cardiovascular Research Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, 185 Cambridge Street, CPZN 3.184, Boston, MA 02114, United States; Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, United States.
M2  - Lander, Bradley. Division of Cardiology, Columbia University Irving Medical Center - New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York, NY, United States.
M2  - Kelly, Noreen. Sanger Heart and Vascular Institute, Atrium Health, Charlotte, NC, United States.
M2  - Vivaldi, Maria T. Cardiovascular Disease Prevention Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, United States; Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, United States.
M2  - Traynor, Kate. Cardiovascular Disease Prevention Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, United States.
M2  - Wiviott, Stephen. Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston MA, United States.
M2  - Natarajan, Pradeep. Cardiovascular Research Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, 185 Cambridge Street, CPZN 3.184, Boston, MA 02114, United States; Cardiovascular Disease Prevention Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, United States; Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, United States; Program in Medical and Population Genetics and Cardiovascular Disease Initiative, Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, MA, United States. Electronic address: pnatarajan@mgh.harvard.edu.
SN  - 2352-3964
SN  - 2352-3964
M1  - 101647039
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ebiom.2021.103593
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med20&NEWS=N&AN=34657825
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med20&AN=34657825 

23. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 33112363
T1  - Effectiveness of Home-Based Mobile Guided Cardiac Rehabilitation as Alternative Strategy for Nonparticipation in Clinic-Based Cardiac Rehabilitation Among Elderly Patients in Europe: A Randomized Clinical Trial.
A1  - Snoek, Johan A
A1  - Prescott, Eva I
A1  - van der Velde, Astrid E
A1  - Eijsvogels, Thijs M H
A1  - Mikkelsen, Nicolai
A1  - Prins, Leonie F
A1  - Bruins, Wendy
A1  - Meindersma, Esther
A1  - Gonzalez-Juanatey, Jose R
A1  - Pena-Gil, Carlos
A1  - Gonzalez-Salvado, Violeta
A1  - Moatemri, Feriel
A1  - Iliou, Marie-Christine
A1  - Marcin, Thimo
A1  - Eser, Prisca
A1  - Wilhelm, Matthias
A1  - Van't Hof, Arnoud W J
A1  - de Kluiver, Ed P
Y1  - 2021//
N2  - Importance: Although nonparticipation in cardiac rehabilitation is known to increase cardiovascular mortality and hospital readmissions, more than half of patients with coronary artery disease in Europe are not participating in cardiac rehabilitation., Objective: To assess whether a 6-month guided mobile cardiac rehabilitation (MCR) program is an effective therapy for elderly patients who decline participation in cardiac rehabilitation., Design, Setting, and Participants: Patients were enrolled in this parallel multicenter randomized clinical trial from November 11, 2015, to January 3, 2018, and follow-up was completed on January 17, 2019, in a secondary care system with 6 cardiac institutions across 5 European countries. Researchers assessing primary outcome were masked for group assignment. A total of 4236 patients were identified with a recent diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome, coronary revascularization, or surgical or percutaneous treatment for valvular disease, or documented coronary artery disease, of whom 996 declined to start cardiac rehabilitation. Subsequently, 179 patients who met the inclusion and exclusion criteria consented to participate in the European Study on Effectiveness and Sustainability of Current Cardiac Rehabilitation Programmes in the Elderly trial. Data were analyzed from January 21 to October 11, 2019., Interventions: Six months of home-based cardiac rehabilitation with telemonitoring and coaching based on motivational interviewing was used to stimulate patients to reach exercise goals. Control patients did not receive any form of cardiac rehabilitation throughout the study period., Main Outcomes and Measures: The primary outcome parameter was peak oxygen uptake (Vo2peak) after 6 months., Results: Among 179 patients randomized (145 male [81%]; median age, 72 [range, 65-87] years), 159 (89%) were eligible for primary end point analysis. Follow-up at 1 year was completed for 151 patients (84%). Peak oxygen uptake improved in the MCR group (n = 89) at 6 and 12 months (1.6 [95% CI, 0.9-2.4] mL/kg-1/min-1 and 1.2 [95% CI, 0.4-2.0] mL/kg-1/min-1, respectively), whereas there was no improvement in the control group (n = 90) (+0.2 [95% CI, -0.4 to 0.8] mL/kg-1/min-1 and +0.1 [95% CI, -0.5 to 0.7] mL/kg-1/min-1, respectively). Changes in Vo2peak were greater in the MCR vs control groups at 6 months (+1.2 [95% CI, 0.2 to 2.1] mL/kg-1/min-1) and 12 months (+0.9 [95% CI, 0.05 to 1.8] mL/kg-1/min-1). The incidence of adverse events was low and did not differ between the MCR and control groups., Conclusions and Relevance: These results suggest that a 6-month home-based MCR program for patients 65 years or older with coronary artery disease or a valvular intervention was safe and beneficial in improving Vo2peak when compared with no cardiac rehabilitation., Trial Registration: trialregister.nl Identifier: NL5168.
KW  - Aged
KW  - Aged, 80 and over
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation/mt [Methods]
KW  - Europe
KW  - Female
KW  - *Home Care Services
KW  - Humans
KW  - Male
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - Monitoring, Ambulatory/mt [Methods]
KW  - Motivational Interviewing/mt [Methods]
KW  - Physical Fitness
KW  - Smartphone
JF  - JAMA cardiology
JA  - JAMA Cardiol
VL  - 6
IS  - 4
SP  - 463
EP  - 468
CY  - United States
M2  - Snoek, Johan A. Isala Heart Center, Zwolle, the Netherlands.
M2  - Snoek, Johan A. Sports Medicine Department Isala, Zwolle, the Netherlands.
M2  - Prescott, Eva I. Department of Cardiology, Bispebjerg Frederiksberg University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
M2  - van der Velde, Astrid E. Isala Heart Center, Zwolle, the Netherlands.
M2  - Eijsvogels, Thijs M H. Radboud Institute for Health Sciences, Department of Physiology, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
M2  - Mikkelsen, Nicolai. Department of Cardiology, Bispebjerg Frederiksberg University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
M2  - Prins, Leonie F. Diagram, Zwolle, the Netherlands.
M2  - Meindersma, Esther. Department of Cardiology, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
M2  - Gonzalez-Juanatey, Jose R. Department of Cardiology, Hospital Clinico Universitario de Santiago, Instituto de Investigacion Sanitaria, CIBER CV, Madrid, Spain.
M2  - Pena-Gil, Carlos. Department of Cardiology, Hospital Clinico Universitario de Santiago, Instituto de Investigacion Sanitaria, CIBER CV, Madrid, Spain.
M2  - Gonzalez-Salvado, Violeta. Department of Cardiology, Hospital Clinico Universitario de Santiago, Instituto de Investigacion Sanitaria, CIBER CV, Madrid, Spain.
M2  - Moatemri, Feriel. Department of Cardiac Rehabilitation, Assistance Publique Hopitaux de Paris, Paris, France.
M2  - Iliou, Marie-Christine. Department of Cardiac Rehabilitation, Assistance Publique Hopitaux de Paris, Paris, France.
M2  - Marcin, Thimo. Department of Cardiology, Inselspital, Bern University Hospital, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
M2  - Eser, Prisca. Department of Cardiology, Inselspital, Bern University Hospital, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
M2  - Wilhelm, Matthias. Department of Cardiology, Inselspital, Bern University Hospital, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
M2  - Van't Hof, Arnoud W J. Department of Cardiology, Maastricht University Medical Center and Cardiovascular Research Institute Maastricht (CARIM), Maastricht, the Netherlands.
M2  - Van't Hof, Arnoud W J. Department of Cardiology, Zuyderland Medical Center, Heerlen, the Netherlands.
M2  - de Kluiver, Ed P. Isala Heart Center, Zwolle, the Netherlands.
SN  - 2380-6591
M1  - 101676033
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1001/jamacardio.2020.5218
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med20&NEWS=N&AN=33112363
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med20&AN=33112363 

24. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 34714208
T1  - Hypertension telemonitoring and home-based physical training programs.
A1  - Ruberti, Olivia Moraes
A1  - Yugar-Toledo, Juan Carlos
A1  - Moreno, Heitor
A1  - Rodrigues, Bruno
Y1  - 2021//
Y2  - 20211029//
N2  - PURPOSE: Hypertensive patients with access to telemedicine can receive telemonitoring of blood pressure and cardiovascular risk factors such as sedentary lifestyle, diet, and remote supervision of treatment compliance. Faced with this challenge, electronic devices for telemonitoring of BP have gained space. They have shown to be effective in the follow-up of hypertensive patients and assist in the adherence and control of associated risk factors such as physical inactivity and obesity., MATERIALS AND METHODS: Narrative Review., RESULTS: The use of advanced smartwatches, smartphone apps, and online software for monitoring physical activity is increasingly common. Electronic equipment is briefly presented here as a support for better addressing some cardiovascular variables. Using various automated feedback services with a follow-up multidisciplinary clinical team is the ideal strategy., CONCLUSION: Mobile health can improve risk factors and health status, particularly for hypertensive patients, improving access to cardiac rehabilitation and reducing the cost.
KW  - Blood Pressure
KW  - Humans
KW  - Hypertension/th [Therapy]
KW  - *Hypertension
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - Patient Compliance
KW  - *Telemedicine
JF  - Blood pressure
JA  - Blood Press
VL  - 30
IS  - 6
SP  - 428
EP  - 438
CY  - England
M2  - Ruberti, Olivia Moraes. Laboratory of Cardiovascular Investigation & Exercise, School of Physical Education, University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, Brazil.
M2  - Yugar-Toledo, Juan Carlos. Department of Medicine, Rio Preto Faculty of Medicine (FAMERP), Sao Jose do Rio Preto, Brazil.
M2  - Moreno, Heitor. Laboratory of Cardiovascular Pharmacology & Hypertension, School of Medical Sciences, University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, Brazil.
M2  - Rodrigues, Bruno. Laboratory of Cardiovascular Investigation & Exercise, School of Physical Education, University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, Brazil.
M2  - Rodrigues, Bruno. Laboratory of Cardiovascular Pharmacology & Hypertension, School of Medical Sciences, University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, Brazil.
SN  - 1651-1999
SN  - 0803-7051
M1  - bya, 9301454
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1080/08037051.2021.1996221
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med20&NEWS=N&AN=34714208
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med20&AN=34714208 

25. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 34224437
T1  - Mobile health in preventive cardiology: current status and future perspective.
A1  - Kozik, Michael
A1  - Isakadze, Nino
A1  - Martin, Seth S
Y1  - 2021//
N2  - PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Despite cutting edge acute interventions and growing preventive strategies supported by robust clinical trials, cardiovascular disease (CVD) has stubbornly persisted as a leading cause of death in the United States and globally. The American Heart Association recognizes mobile health technologies (mHealth) as an emerging strategy in the mitigation of CVD risk factors, with significant potential for improving population health. The purpose of this review is to highlight and summarize the latest available literature on mHealth applications and provide perspective on future directions and barriers to implementation., RECENT FINDINGS: While available randomized controlled trials and systematic reviews tend to support efficacy of mHealth, published literature includes heterogenous approaches to similar problems with inconsistent results. Some of the strongest recent evidence has been focused on the use of wearables in arrhythmia detection. Systematic reviews of mHealth approaches demonstrate benefit when applied to risk factor modification in diabetes, cigarette smoking cessation, and physical activity/weight loss, while also showing promise in multi risk factor modification via cardiac rehabilitation., SUMMARY: Evidence supports efficacy of mHealth in a variety of applications for CVD prevention and management, but continued work is needed for further validation and scaling. Future directions will focus on platform optimization, data and sensor consolidation, and clinical workflow integration. Barriers include application heterogeneity, lack of reimbursement structures, and inequitable access to technology. Policies to promote access to technology will be critical to evidence-based mHealth technologies reaching diverse populations and advancing health equity. Copyright © 2021 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
KW  - *Cardiology
KW  - Exercise
KW  - Humans
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - Risk Factors
KW  - *Telemedicine
JF  - Current opinion in cardiology
JA  - Curr Opin Cardiol
VL  - 36
IS  - 5
SP  - 580
EP  - 588
CY  - United States
M2  - Kozik, Michael. Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology.
M2  - Kozik, Michael. Ciccarone Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease, Digital Health Innovation Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.
M2  - Kozik, Michael. Johns Hopkins Center for Mobile Technologies to Achieve Equity in Cardiovascular Health (mTECH).
M2  - Isakadze, Nino. Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology.
M2  - Isakadze, Nino. Ciccarone Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease, Digital Health Innovation Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.
M2  - Isakadze, Nino. Johns Hopkins Center for Mobile Technologies to Achieve Equity in Cardiovascular Health (mTECH).
M2  - Isakadze, Nino. Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
M2  - Martin, Seth S. Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology.
M2  - Martin, Seth S. Ciccarone Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease, Digital Health Innovation Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.
M2  - Martin, Seth S. Johns Hopkins Center for Mobile Technologies to Achieve Equity in Cardiovascular Health (mTECH).
M2  - Martin, Seth S. Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
SN  - 1531-7080
SN  - 0268-4705
M1  - bda, 8608087
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1097/HCO.0000000000000891
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med19&NEWS=N&AN=34224437
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med19&AN=34224437 

26. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 34278801
T1  - Mobile Technology Improves Adherence to Cardiac Rehabilitation: A Propensity Score-Matched Study.
A1  - Imran, Tasnim F
A1  - Wang, Na
A1  - Zombeck, Stephanie
A1  - Balady, Gary J
Y1  - 2021//
Y2  - 20210719//
N2  - Background Despite its established effectiveness, adherence to cardiac rehabilitation remains suboptimal. The purpose of our study is to examine whether mobile technology improves adherence to cardiac rehabilitation and other outcomes. Methods and Results We identified all enrollees of the cardiac rehabilitation program at Boston Medical Center from 2016 to 2019 (n=830). Some enrollees used a mobile technology application that provided a customized list of educational content in a progressive manner, used the patient's smartphone accelerometer to provide daily step counts, and served as a 2-way messaging system between the patient and program staff. Adherence to cardiac rehabilitation was defined as the number of attended sessions and completion of the program. Enrollees had a mean age of 59 years; 32% were women, and 42% were Black. Using 3:1 propensity matching for age, sex, race/ethnicity, education, smoking status, transportation time, diagnosis, and baseline depression survey score, we evaluated change in exercise capacity, weight, functional capacity, and nutrition scores. Those in the mobile technology group (n=114) attended a higher number of prescribed sessions (mean 28 versus 22; relative risk, 1.17; 95% CI, 1.04-1.32; P=0.009), were 1.8 times more likely to complete the cardiac rehabilitation program (P=0.01), and had a slightly greater weight loss (pounds) following rehabilitation (-1.71; 95% CI, -0.30 to -3.11; P=0.02) as compared with those in the standard group (n=213); other outcomes were similar between the groups. Conclusions In a propensity-matched, racially diverse population, we found that adjunctive use of mobile technology is significantly associated with improved adherence to cardiac rehabilitation and number of attended sessions.
KW  - Accelerometry/is [Instrumentation]
KW  - Cardiac Rehabilitation/mt [Methods]
KW  - Cardiac Rehabilitation/px [Psychology]
KW  - Cardiac Rehabilitation/st [Standards]
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation
KW  - Female
KW  - Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice
KW  - Humans
KW  - Information Technology/td [Trends]
KW  - Male
KW  - Middle Aged
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - Outcome Assessment, Health Care
KW  - *Patient Compliance/sn [Statistics & Numerical Data]
KW  - Patient Education as Topic/mt [Methods]
KW  - *Preventive Health Services/mt [Methods]
KW  - Propensity Score
KW  - Research Design
KW  - *Smartphone
KW  - Treatment Outcome
JF  - Journal of the American Heart Association
JA  - J Am Heart Assoc
VL  - 10
IS  - 15
SP  - e020482
CY  - England
M2  - Imran, Tasnim F. Department of Medicine, Cardiology Section Boston Medical Center Boston University School of Medicine Boston MA.
M2  - Imran, Tasnim F. Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown UniversitySection of CardiologyRhode Island and Miriam Hospitals Providence RI.
M2  - Wang, Na. Biostatistics and Epidemiology Data Analytics Center Boston University School of Public Health Boston MA.
M2  - Zombeck, Stephanie. Department of Medicine, Cardiology Section Boston Medical Center Boston University School of Medicine Boston MA.
M2  - Balady, Gary J. Department of Medicine, Cardiology Section Boston Medical Center Boston University School of Medicine Boston MA.
SN  - 2047-9980
SN  - 2047-9980
M1  - 101580524
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1161/JAHA.120.020482
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med19&NEWS=N&AN=34278801
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med19&AN=34278801 

27. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 34217385
T1  - Cardiac rehabilitation in the digital era.
A1  - Pandey, Amitabh C
A1  - Golbus, Jessica R
A1  - Topol, Eric J
Y1  - 2021//
KW  - Artificial Intelligence
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation/mt [Methods]
KW  - *Exercise Therapy/is [Instrumentation]
KW  - Fitness Trackers
KW  - Humans
KW  - Mobile Applications
JF  - Lancet (London, England)
JA  - Lancet
VL  - 398
IS  - 10294
SP  - 16
CY  - England
M2  - Pandey, Amitabh C. Scripps Research Translational Institute, Scripps Research La Jolla, CA 92037, USA; Division of Cardiology, Scripps Clinic, La Jolla, CA.
M2  - Golbus, Jessica R. Division of Cardiovascular Diseases, Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
M2  - Topol, Eric J. Scripps Research Translational Institute, Scripps Research La Jolla, CA 92037, USA; Division of Cardiology, Scripps Clinic, La Jolla, CA. Electronic address: etopol@scripps.edu.
SN  - 1474-547X
SN  - 0140-6736
M1  - 2985213r, l0s, 0053266
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(21)01437-9
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med19&NEWS=N&AN=34217385
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med19&AN=34217385 

28. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 34175270
T1  - Traditional vs Extended Hybrid Cardiac Rehabilitation Based on the Continuous Care Model for Patients Who Have Undergone Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery in a Middle-Income Country: A Randomized Controlled Trial.
A1  - Pakrad, Fatemeh
A1  - Ahmadi, Fazlollah
A1  - Grace, Sherry L
A1  - Oshvandi, Khodayar
A1  - Kazemnejad, Anoshirvan
Y1  - 2021//
Y2  - 20210624//
N2  - OBJECTIVE: To compare traditional (1-month supervised) vs hybrid cardiac rehabilitation (CR; usual care) with an additional 3 months offered remotely based on the continuous care model (intervention) in patients who have undergone coronary artery bypass graft (CABG)., DESIGN: Randomized controlled trial, with blinded outcome assessment., SETTING: A major heart center in a middle-income country., PARTICIPANTS: Of 107 eligible patients who were referred to CR during the period of study, 82.2% (N=88) were enrolled (target sample size). Participants were randomly assigned 1:1 (concealed; 44 per parallel arm). There was 92.0% retention., INTERVENTIONS: After CR, participants were given a mobile application and communicated biweekly with the nurse from months 1-4 to control risk factors., MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality of life (QOL, Short Form-36, primary outcome); functional capacity (treadmill test); and the Depression, Anxiety and Stress Scale were evaluated pre-CR, after 1 month, and 3 months after CR (end of intervention), as well as rehospitalization., RESULTS: The analysis of variance interaction effects for the physical and mental component summary scores of QOL were <.001, favoring intervention (per protocol); there were also significant increases from pre-CR to 1 month, and from 1 month to the final assessment in the intervention arm (P<.001), with change in the control arm only to 1 month. The effect sizes were 0.115 and 0.248, respectively. Similarly, the interaction effect for functional capacity was significant (P<.001), with a clinically significant 1.5 metabolic equivalent of task increase in the intervention arm. There were trends for group effects for the psychosocial indicators, with paired t tests revealing significant increases in each at both assessment points in the intervention arm. At 4 months, there were 4 (10.3%) rehospitalizations in the control arm and none in intervention (P=.049). Intended theoretical mechanisms were also affected by the intervention., CONCLUSIONS: Extending CR in this accessible manner, rendering it more comprehensive, was effective in improving outcomes. Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier Inc.
KW  - Aged
KW  - Anxiety/ep [Epidemiology]
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation/mt [Methods]
KW  - Coronary Artery Bypass/px [Psychology]
KW  - *Coronary Artery Bypass/rh [Rehabilitation]
KW  - Depression/ep [Epidemiology]
KW  - Female
KW  - Healthy Lifestyle
KW  - Humans
KW  - Iran
KW  - Male
KW  - Mental Health
KW  - Middle Aged
KW  - Mobile Applications
KW  - Patient Education as Topic/mt [Methods]
KW  - Physical Functional Performance
KW  - *Physical Therapy Modalities
KW  - Quality of Life
KW  - Risk Factors
KW  - Severity of Illness Index
KW  - Socioeconomic Factors
KW  - Time Factors
JF  - Archives of physical medicine and rehabilitation
JA  - Arch Phys Med Rehabil
VL  - 102
IS  - 11
SP  - 2091
EP  - 2101.e3
CY  - United States
M2  - Pakrad, Fatemeh. Department of Nursing, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat Modares University, Tehran, Iran.
M2  - Ahmadi, Fazlollah. Department of Nursing, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat Modares University, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: Ahmadif@modares.ac.ir.
M2  - Grace, Sherry L. Faculty of Health, York University, Toronto, Canada; KITE- Toronto Rehabilitation Institute, Peter Munk Cardiac Centre, University Health Network, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
M2  - Oshvandi, Khodayar. Chronic Disease (Home Care) Research Center, School of Nursing and Midwifery, Hamadan University of Medical Sciences, Hamadan, Iran.
M2  - Kazemnejad, Anoshirvan. Department of Biostatistics, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat Modares University, Tehran, Iran.
SN  - 1532-821X
SN  - 0003-9993
M1  - 2985158r, 8bk
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apmr.2021.04.026
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med19&NEWS=N&AN=34175270
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med19&AN=34175270 

29. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 33856357
T1  - Remote Heart Rhythm Monitoring by Photoplethysmography-Based Smartphone Technology After Cardiac Surgery: Prospective Observational Study.
A1  - Lamberigts, Marie
A1  - Van Hoof, Lucas
A1  - Proesmans, Tine
A1  - Vandervoort, Pieter
A1  - Grieten, Lars
A1  - Haemers, Peter
A1  - Rega, Filip
Y1  - 2021//
Y2  - 20210415//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common arrhythmia after cardiac surgery, yet the precise incidence and significance of arrhythmias after discharge home need to be better defined. Photoplethysmography (PPG)-based smartphone apps are promising tools to enable early detection and follow-up of arrhythmias., OBJECTIVE: By using a PPG-based smartphone app, we aimed to gain more insight into the prevalence of AF and other rhythm-related complications upon discharge home after cardiac surgery and evaluate the implementation of this app into routine clinical care., METHODS: In this prospective, single-center trial, patients recovering from cardiac surgery were asked to register their heart rhythm 3 times daily using a Food and Drug Administration-approved PPG-based app, for either 30 or 60 days after discharge home. Patients with permanent AF or a permanent pacemaker were excluded., RESULTS: We included 24 patients (mean age 60.2 years, SD 12 years; 15/23, 65% male) who underwent coronary artery bypass grafting and/or valve surgery. During hospitalization, 39% (9/23) experienced postoperative AF. After discharge, the PPG app reported AF or atrial flutter in 5 patients. While the app notified flutter in 1 patient, this was a false positive, as electrocardiogram revealed a 2nd-degree, 2:1 atrioventricular block necessitating a permanent pacemaker. AF was confirmed in 4 patients (4/23, 17%) and interestingly, was associated with an underlying postoperative complication in 2 participants (pneumonia n=1, pericardial tamponade n=1). A significant increase in the proportion of measurements indicating sinus rhythm was observed when comparing the first to the second month of follow-up (P<.001). In the second month of follow-up, compliance was significantly lower with 2.2 (SD 0.7) measurements per day versus 3.0 (SD 0.8) measurements per day in the first month (P=.002). The majority of participants (17/23, 74%), as well as the surveyed primary care physicians, experienced positive value by using the app as they felt more involved in the postoperative rehabilitation., CONCLUSIONS: Implementation of smartphone-based PPG technology enables detection of AF and other rhythm-related complications after cardiac surgery. An association between AF detection and an underlying complication was found in 2 patients. Therefore, smartphone-based PPG technology may supplement rehabilitation after cardiac surgery by acting as a sentinel for underlying complications, rhythm-related or otherwise. Copyright ©Marie Lamberigts, Lucas Van Hoof, Tine Proesmans, Pieter Vandervoort, Lars Grieten, Peter Haemers, Filip Rega. Originally published in JMIR mHealth and uHealth (http://mhealth.jmir.org), 15.04.2021.
KW  - Cardiac Surgical Procedures/ae [Adverse Effects]
KW  - *Cardiac Surgical Procedures
KW  - Female
KW  - Humans
KW  - Male
KW  - Middle Aged
KW  - *Photoplethysmography
KW  - Prospective Studies
KW  - Smartphone
KW  - Technology
KW  - United States
JF  - JMIR mHealth and uHealth
JA  - JMIR Mhealth Uhealth
VL  - 9
IS  - 4
SP  - e26519
CY  - Canada
M2  - Lamberigts, Marie. Department of Cardiac Surgery, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
M2  - Van Hoof, Lucas. Department of Cardiac Surgery, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
M2  - Proesmans, Tine. Qompium NV, Hasselt, Belgium.
M2  - Vandervoort, Pieter. Department of Cardiology, Ziekenhuis Oost-Limburg, Genk, Belgium.
M2  - Grieten, Lars. Qompium NV, Hasselt, Belgium.
M2  - Haemers, Peter. Department of Cardiology, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
M2  - Rega, Filip. Department of Cardiac Surgery, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
SN  - 2291-5222
SN  - 2291-5222
M1  - 101624439
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.2196/26519
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med19&NEWS=N&AN=33856357
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med19&AN=33856357 

30. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 33555259
T1  - Digital Health Interventions for Cardiac Rehabilitation: Systematic Literature Review.
A1  - Wongvibulsin, Shannon
A1  - Habeos, Evagelia E
A1  - Huynh, Pauline P
A1  - Xun, Helen
A1  - Shan, Rongzi
A1  - Porosnicu Rodriguez, Kori A
A1  - Wang, Jane
A1  - Gandapur, Yousuf K
A1  - Osuji, Ngozi
A1  - Shah, Lochan M
A1  - Spaulding, Erin M
A1  - Hung, George
A1  - Knowles, Kellen
A1  - Yang, William E
A1  - Marvel, Francoise A
A1  - Levin, Eleanor
A1  - Maron, David J
A1  - Gordon, Neil F
A1  - Martin, Seth S
Y1  - 2021//
Y2  - 20210208//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death worldwide. Despite strong evidence supporting the benefits of cardiac rehabilitation (CR), over 80% of eligible patients do not participate in CR. Digital health technologies (ie, the delivery of care using the internet, wearable devices, and mobile apps) have the potential to address the challenges associated with traditional facility-based CR programs, but little is known about the comprehensiveness of these interventions to serve as digital approaches to CR. Overall, there is a lack of a systematic evaluation of the current literature on digital interventions for CR., OBJECTIVE: The objective of this systematic literature review is to provide an in-depth analysis of the potential of digital health technologies to address the challenges associated with traditional CR. Through this review, we aim to summarize the current literature on digital interventions for CR, identify the key components of CR that have been successfully addressed through digital interventions, and describe the gaps in research that need to be addressed for sustainable and scalable digital CR interventions., METHODS: Our strategy for identifying the primary literature pertaining to CR with digital solutions (defined as technology employed to deliver remote care beyond the use of the telephone) included a consultation with an expert in the field of digital CR and searches of the PubMed (MEDLINE), Embase, CINAHL, and Cochrane databases for original studies published from January 1990 to October 2018., RESULTS: Our search returned 31 eligible studies, of which 22 were randomized controlled trials. The reviewed CR interventions primarily targeted physical activity counseling (31/31, 100%), baseline assessment (30/31, 97%), and exercise training (27/31, 87%). The most commonly used modalities were smartphones or mobile devices (20/31, 65%), web-based portals (18/31, 58%), and email-SMS (11/31, 35%). Approximately one-third of the studies addressed the CR core components of nutrition counseling, psychological management, and weight management. In contrast, less than a third of the studies addressed other CR core components, including the management of lipids, diabetes, smoking cessation, and blood pressure., CONCLUSIONS: Digital technologies have the potential to increase access and participation in CR by mitigating the challenges associated with traditional, facility-based CR. However, previously evaluated interventions primarily focused on physical activity counseling and exercise training. Thus, further research is required with more comprehensive CR interventions and long-term follow-up to understand the clinical impact of digital interventions. Copyright ©Shannon Wongvibulsin, Evagelia E Habeos, Pauline P Huynh, Helen Xun, Rongzi Shan, Kori A Porosnicu Rodriguez, Jane Wang, Yousuf K Gandapur, Ngozi Osuji, Lochan M Shah, Erin M Spaulding, George Hung, Kellen Knowles, William E Yang, Francoise A Marvel, Eleanor Levin, David J Maron, Neil F Gordon, Seth S Martin. Originally published in the Journal of Medical Internet Research (http://www.jmir.org), 08.02.2021.
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation/mt [Methods]
KW  - Humans
KW  - *Mobile Applications/st [Standards]
KW  - *Telemedicine/mt [Methods]
JF  - Journal of medical Internet research
JA  - J Med Internet Res
VL  - 23
IS  - 2
SP  - e18773
CY  - Canada
M2  - Wongvibulsin, Shannon. Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States.
M2  - Habeos, Evagelia E. University of Patras School of Medicine, Patras, Greece.
M2  - Huynh, Pauline P. Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States.
M2  - Xun, Helen. Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States.
M2  - Shan, Rongzi. Ciccarone Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease, Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States.
M2  - Shan, Rongzi. UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, United States.
M2  - Porosnicu Rodriguez, Kori A. Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States.
M2  - Wang, Jane. Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States.
M2  - Wang, Jane. UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, United States.
M2  - Gandapur, Yousuf K. Medstar Franklin Square Hospital, Baltimore, MD, United States.
M2  - Osuji, Ngozi. Ciccarone Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease, Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States.
M2  - Shah, Lochan M. Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States.
M2  - Spaulding, Erin M. Johns Hopkins School of Nursing, Baltimore, MD, United States.
M2  - Hung, George. Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States.
M2  - Knowles, Kellen. Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center, Baltimore, MD, United States.
M2  - Yang, William E. Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States.
M2  - Marvel, Francoise A. Ciccarone Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease, Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States.
M2  - Levin, Eleanor. Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, United States.
M2  - Maron, David J. Stanford Prevention Research Center, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, United States.
M2  - Gordon, Neil F. INTERVENT International, Savannah, GA, United States.
M2  - Gordon, Neil F. Centre for Exercise Science and Sports Medicine, School of Therapeutic Sciences, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.
M2  - Martin, Seth S. Ciccarone Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease, Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States.
SN  - 1438-8871
SN  - 1438-8871
M1  - 100959882
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.2196/18773
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med19&NEWS=N&AN=33555259
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med19&AN=33555259 

31. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 33323435
T1  - A smartphone app for sedentary behaviour change in cardiac rehabilitation and the effect on hospital admissions: the ToDo-CR randomised controlled trial study protocol.
A1  - Patterson, Kacie
A1  - Davey, Rachel
A1  - Keegan, Richard
A1  - Niyonsenga, Theophile
A1  - Mohanty, Itismita
A1  - van Berlo, Sander
A1  - Freene, Nicole
Y1  - 2020//
Y2  - 20201215//
N2  - INTRODUCTION: Cardiac rehabilitation (CR) is recommended for secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease and reducing the risk of repeat cardiac events. Physical activity is a core component of CR; however, studies show that participants remain largely sedentary. Sedentary behaviour is an independent risk factor for all-cause mortality. Strategies to encourage sedentary behaviour change are needed. This study will explore the effectiveness and costs of a smartphone application (Vire) and an individualised online behaviour change program (ToDo-CR) in reducing sedentary behaviour, all-cause hospital admissions and emergency department visits over 12 months after commencing CR., METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A multicentre, assessor-blind parallel randomised controlled trial will be conducted with 144 participants (18+ years). Participants will be recruited from three phase-II CR centres. They will be assessed on admission to CR and randomly assigned (1:1) to one of two groups: CR plus the ToDo-CR 6-month programme or usual care CR. Both groups will be re-assessed at 6 months and 12 months for the primary outcome of all-cause hospital admissions and presentations to the emergency department. Accelerometer-measured changes in sedentary behaviour and physical activity will also be assessed. Logistic regression models will be used for the primary outcome of hospital admissions and emergency department visits. Methods for repeated measures analysis will be used for all other outcomes. A cost-effectiveness analysis will be conducted to evaluate the effects of the intervention on the rates of hospital admissions and emergency department visits within the 12 months post commencing CR., ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This study received ethical approval from the Australian Capital Territory Health (2019.ETH.00162), Calvary Public Hospital Bruce (20-2019) and the University of Canberra (HREC-2325) Human Research Ethics Committees (HREC). Results will be disseminated through peer-reviewed academic journals. Results will be made available to participants on request., TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ACTRN12619001223123. Copyright © Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.
KW  - Australia
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation
KW  - *Health Behavior
KW  - Hospitalization
KW  - Humans
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - Sedentary Behavior
KW  - Smartphone
JF  - BMJ open
JA  - BMJ Open
VL  - 10
IS  - 12
SP  - e040479
CY  - England
M2  - Patterson, Kacie. Health Research Institute, Faculty of Health, University of Canberra, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory, Australia kacie.patterson@canberra.edu.au.
M2  - Davey, Rachel. Health Research Institute, Faculty of Health, University of Canberra, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory, Australia.
M2  - Keegan, Richard. Research Institute for Sports and Exercise (UCRISE), Faculty of Health, University of Canberra, Bruce, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory, Australia.
M2  - Niyonsenga, Theophile. Health Research Institute, Faculty of Health, University of Canberra, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory, Australia.
M2  - Mohanty, Itismita. Health Research Institute, Faculty of Health, University of Canberra, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory, Australia.
M2  - van Berlo, Sander. Onmi B.V, Eindhoven, Netherlands.
M2  - Freene, Nicole. Health Research Institute, Faculty of Health, University of Canberra, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory, Australia.
M2  - Freene, Nicole. Physiotherapy, Faculty of Health, University of Canberra, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory, Australia.
SN  - 2044-6055
SN  - 2044-6055
M1  - 101552874
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1136/bmjopen-2020-040479
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med18&NEWS=N&AN=33323435
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med18&AN=33323435 

32. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 33372172
T1  - Application of the WeChat Platform to Implement Continuous Nursing for Patients After Percutaneous Coronary Intervention.
A1  - Zhou, Sheng-Huo
A1  - Huang, Shu-Ting
A1  - Xu, Ning
A1  - Chen, Liang-Wang
A1  - Chen, Qiang
Y1  - 2020//
Y2  - 20201229//
N2  - BACKGROUND Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is an effective treatment for coronary heart disease. However, a lack of cardiac rehabilitation and continuous nursing management leads to repeated patient hospitalizations. Long-term systematic rehabilitation and nursing management after discharge are key to ensuring quality of treatment and patient quality of life. This study aimed to explore the application of the WeChat platform in continuous nursing after PCI. MATERIAL AND METHODS This was a retrospective case-control study. The clinical data of 63 patients in our cardiac center who underwent PCI between June 2017 and January 2018 were recorded. Patients were divided into 2 groups: the continuous nursing through the WeChat platform (intervention) group and the conventional nursing (control) group. The Self-Rating Depression Scale (SDS), Self-Rating Anxiety Scale (SAS), and Seattle Angina Questionnaire (SAQ) were used as the evaluation tools. RESULTS The SAQ scores in all 5 SAQ dimensions in the continuous nursing group were significantly higher than those of the control group at the 1-year follow-up. Scores on the SAS and SDS scales at 1-year follow-up were significantly better in the intervention group than in the control group. The SAS and SDS scores in both groups were better at the 1-year follow-up, but the difference was statistically significant in the continuous nursing group and not in the control group. CONCLUSIONS Using the WeChat platform can make continuous nursing more convenient and effective for patients after PCI. It may reduce the occurrence of complications, relieve patient depression and anxiety, and improve patient quality of life.
KW  - Female
KW  - Humans
KW  - Male
KW  - Middle Aged
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - Patient Discharge
KW  - *Percutaneous Coronary Intervention/nu [Nursing]
KW  - Percutaneous Coronary Intervention/px [Psychology]
KW  - Surveys and Questionnaires
JF  - Medical science monitor : international medical journal of experimental and clinical research
JA  - Med Sci Monit
VL  - 26
SP  - e925444
CY  - United States
M2  - Zhou, Sheng-Huo. Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Union Hospital, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China (mainland).
M2  - Huang, Shu-Ting. Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Union Hospital, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China (mainland).
M2  - Xu, Ning. Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Union Hospital, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China (mainland).
M2  - Chen, Liang-Wang. Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Union Hospital, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China (mainland).
M2  - Chen, Qiang. Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Union Hospital, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China (mainland).
SN  - 1643-3750
SN  - 1234-1010
M1  - dxw, 9609063
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.12659/MSM.925444
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med18&NEWS=N&AN=33372172
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med18&AN=33372172 

33. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 33136508
T1  - Pandemic Intensifies Push for Home-Based Cardiac Rehabilitation Options.
A1  - Kuehn, Bridget M
Y1  - 2020//
Y2  - 20201102//
KW  - *COVID-19/ep [Epidemiology]
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation
KW  - Humans
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - *Pandemics
KW  - *Quality of Life
KW  - *SARS-CoV-2
KW  - Telemedicine
JF  - Circulation
JA  - Circulation
VL  - 142
IS  - 18
SP  - 1781
EP  - 1782
CY  - United States
SN  - 1524-4539
SN  - 0009-7322
M1  - daw, 0147763
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.120.051769
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med18&NEWS=N&AN=33136508
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med18&AN=33136508 

34. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 32681180
T1  - Establishing a Comprehensive Pediatric Cardiac Fitness and Rehabilitation Program for Congenital Heart Disease.
A1  - Gauthier, Naomi
A1  - Curran, Tracy
A1  - O'Neill, Julie Ann
A1  - Alexander, Mark E
A1  - Rhodes, Jonathan
Y1  - 2020//
Y2  - 20200717//
N2  - Children and adolescents with congenital heart disease often do not have the opportunity, inclination, or education to participate in safe and effective exercise. The consequences of this behavioral pattern affect not only cardiopulmonary parameters, but also psychosocial factors, especially when lack of participation in peer activities or sports leads to isolation and further sedentary behaviors. Importantly, unlike cardiac rehabilitation programs for adults with atherosclerotic disease, the goal for congenital heart disease patients was less about "rehabilitation" and more about promotion of optimal fitness. We thus developed a comprehensive "Cardiac Fitness Program" at Boston Children's Hospital to promote exercise training, enhanced self-confidence, and motivation for patients with congenital heart disease. Since much of sustained fitness relates to consistency and behavior change, we crafted a progressive, goal-oriented exercise curriculum and augmented it with a self-learning workbook of targeted positive mindset practices to develop self-efficacy, an app for motivation and data collection, and exercise videos to demonstrate mechanics and to reiterate a positive message. We now report our experience including program structure and framework, navigating insurance, curriculum development, and outcome measures. Methods employed and barriers encountered in the initial development and execution of this program are reviewed. Key take-aways and further considerations including virtual and home-based programs are discussed.
KW  - Adolescent
KW  - Adult
KW  - Boston
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation/mt [Methods]
KW  - Child
KW  - *Exercise
KW  - *Exercise Therapy/mt [Methods]
KW  - Health Promotion/mt [Methods]
KW  - *Heart Defects, Congenital/rh [Rehabilitation]
KW  - Humans
KW  - Sedentary Behavior
KW  - Sports
JF  - Pediatric cardiology
JA  - Pediatr Cardiol
VL  - 41
IS  - 8
SP  - 1569
EP  - 1579
CY  - United States
M2  - Gauthier, Naomi. Department of Cardiology, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, USA. naomi.gauthier@cardio.chboston.org.
M2  - Gauthier, Naomi. Department of Cardiology, Boston Children's Hospital, 300 Longwood Avenue BCH 3215, Boston, MA, 02115, USA. naomi.gauthier@cardio.chboston.org.
M2  - Curran, Tracy. Department of Cardiology, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, USA.
M2  - O'Neill, Julie Ann. Department of Cardiology, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, USA.
M2  - Alexander, Mark E. Department of Cardiology, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, USA.
M2  - Rhodes, Jonathan. Department of Cardiology, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, USA.
SN  - 1432-1971
SN  - 0172-0643
M1  - pa3, 8003849
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00246-020-02413-z
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med18&NEWS=N&AN=32681180
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med18&AN=32681180 

35. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 32558441
T1  - Feasibility, Safety, and Effectiveness of a Mobile Application in Cardiac Rehabilitation.
A1  - Nabutovsky, Irene
A1  - Ashri, Saar
A1  - Nachshon, Amira
A1  - Tesler, Riki
A1  - Shapiro, Yair
A1  - Wright, Evan
A1  - Vadasz, Brian
A1  - Offer, Amir
A1  - Grosman-Rimon, Liza
A1  - Klempfner, Robert
Y1  - 2020//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Cardiac rehabilitation (CR) is underutilized globally despite evidence of clinical benefit. Major obstacles for wider adoption include distance from the rehabilitation center, travel time, and interference with daily routine. Tele-cardiac rehabilitation (tele-CR) can potentially address some of these limitations, enabling patients to exercise in their home environment or community., OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the clinical and physiological outcomes as well as adherence to tele-CR in patients with low cardiovascular risk and to assess exercise capacity, determined by an exercise stress test, using a treadmill before and following the 6-month intervention., METHODS: A total of 22 patients with established coronary artery disease participated in a 6-month tele-CR program. Datos Health (Ramat Gan, Israel), a digital health application and care-team dashboard, was used for remote monitoring, communication, and management of the patients., RESULTS: Following the 6-month tele-CR intervention, there was significant improvement in exercise capacity, assessed by estimated metabolic equivalents with an increase from 10.6 +/- 0.5 to 12.3 +/- 0.5 (P = 0.002). High-density lipoproteins levels significantly improved, whereas low-density lipoproteins, triglyceride, glycosylated hemoglobin, and systolic and diastolic blood pressure levels were not significantly changed. Exercise adherence was consistent among patients, with more than 63% of patients participating in a moderate intensity exercise program for 150 minutes per week., CONCLUSIONS: Patients who participated in tele-CR adhered to the exercise program and attained clinically significant functional improvement. Tele-CR is a viable option for populations that cannot, or elect not to, participate in center-based CR programs.
KW  - Cardiac Rehabilitation/ae [Adverse Effects]
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation/mt [Methods]
KW  - *Coronary Artery Disease/rh [Rehabilitation]
KW  - *Exercise Therapy
KW  - Feasibility Studies
KW  - Female
KW  - Humans
KW  - Male
KW  - Middle Aged
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - Patient Compliance/sn [Statistics & Numerical Data]
KW  - Prospective Studies
KW  - *Telemedicine
KW  - Treatment Outcome
JF  - The Israel Medical Association journal : IMAJ
JA  - Isr Med Assoc J
VL  - 22
IS  - 6
SP  - 357
EP  - 363
CY  - Israel
M2  - Nabutovsky, Irene. Department of Health Systems Management, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ariel University, Ariel, Israel.
M2  - Nabutovsky, Irene. Leviev Cardiothoracic and Vascular Center, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel.
M2  - Ashri, Saar. Leviev Cardiothoracic and Vascular Center, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel.
M2  - Nachshon, Amira. Leviev Cardiothoracic and Vascular Center, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel.
M2  - Tesler, Riki. Department of Health Systems Management, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ariel University, Ariel, Israel.
M2  - Shapiro, Yair. Department of Health Systems Management, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ariel University, Ariel, Israel.
M2  - Wright, Evan. Technion American Medical School, Rappaport Faculty of Medicine, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel.
M2  - Vadasz, Brian. Technion American Medical School, Rappaport Faculty of Medicine, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel.
M2  - Offer, Amir. Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Padeh Medical Center, Poriya, Israel.
M2  - Offer, Amir. Faculty of Medicine in the Galilee, Bar-Ilan University, Safed, Israel.
M2  - Grosman-Rimon, Liza. Leviev Cardiothoracic and Vascular Center, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel.
M2  - Grosman-Rimon, Liza. Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Padeh Medical Center, Poriya, Israel.
M2  - Grosman-Rimon, Liza. Faculty of Medicine in the Galilee, Bar-Ilan University, Safed, Israel.
M2  - Grosman-Rimon, Liza. Academic College at Wingate, Wingate Institute, Netanya, Israel.
M2  - Klempfner, Robert. Leviev Cardiothoracic and Vascular Center, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel.
M2  - Klempfner, Robert. Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
SN  - 1565-1088
M1  - dk6, 100930740
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med17&NEWS=N&AN=32558441
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med17&AN=32558441 

36. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 32106713
T1  - Long-term follow-up with a smartphone application improves exercise capacity post cardiac rehabilitation: A randomized controlled trial.
A1  - Lunde, Pernille
A1  - Bye, Asta
A1  - Bergland, Astrid
A1  - Grimsmo, Jostein
A1  - Jarstad, Even
A1  - Nilsson, Birgitta Blakstad
Y1  - 2020//
Y2  - 20200228//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Mobile health interventions, especially smartphone applications (apps), have been proposed as promising interventions for supporting adherence to healthy behaviour in patients post cardiac rehabilitation (CR). The overall aim of the study was to examine the effect of individualized follow-up with an app for one year on peak oxygen uptake (VO2peak) in patients completing CR., DESIGN: The study was designed as a single-blinded multicentre randomized controlled trial., METHODS: The intervention group (IG) received individualized follow-up enabled with an app for one year, while the control group (CG) received usual care. The primary outcome was difference in VO2peak. Secondary outcomes included exercise performance (time to exhaustion, peak incline (%) and peak velocity (km/h)), bodyweight, resting blood pressure, lipid profile, triglycerides, exercise habits, health-related quality of life, health status and self-perceived goal achievement., RESULTS: In total, 113 patients completing CR (73.4% with coronary artery disease, 16.8% after valve surgery and 9.8% with other heart diseases) were randomly allocated to the IG or CG. Intention to treat analyses showed a statistically significant difference in VO2peak between the groups at follow-up of 2.2 ml/kg/min, 95% confidence interval 0.9-3.5 (p < 0.001). Statistically significant differences were also observed in exercise performance, exercise habits and in self-perceived goal achievement., CONCLUSIONS: Individualized follow-up for one year with an app significantly improved VO2peak, exercise performance and exercise habits, as well as self-perceived goal achievement, compared with a CG in patients post-CR. There were no statistically significant differences between the groups at follow-up in the other outcome measures evaluated.
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation/mt [Methods]
KW  - *Coronary Artery Disease/rh [Rehabilitation]
KW  - *Exercise Tolerance/ph [Physiology]
KW  - Follow-Up Studies
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - Outcome Assessment, Health Care
KW  - *Quality of Life
KW  - Retrospective Studies
KW  - Single-Blind Method
KW  - *Smartphone
KW  - *Telemedicine
KW  - Time Factors
JF  - European journal of preventive cardiology
JA  - Eur J Prev Cardiolog
VL  - 27
IS  - 16
SP  - 1782
EP  - 1792
CY  - England
M2  - Lunde, Pernille. Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, OsloMet - Oslo Metropolitan University, Norway.
M2  - Bye, Asta. Department of Nursing and Health Promotion, Faculty of Health Sciences, OsloMet - Oslo Metropolitan University, Norway.
M2  - Bye, Asta. Regional Advisory Unit for Palliative Care, Department of Oncology, Oslo University Hospital, Norway.
M2  - Bergland, Astrid. Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, OsloMet - Oslo Metropolitan University, Norway.
M2  - Grimsmo, Jostein. Norwegian Heart and Lung Patient Organization, LHL-Hospital Gardermoen, Norway.
M2  - Jarstad, Even. Norwegian Sport Medicine Clinic (NIMI), Department of Cardiology and Exercise Physiology, Norway.
M2  - Nilsson, Birgitta Blakstad. Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, OsloMet - Oslo Metropolitan University, Norway.
M2  - Nilsson, Birgitta Blakstad. Section for Physiotherapy, Division of Medicine, Oslo University Hospital, Norway.
SN  - 2047-4881
SN  - 2047-4873
M1  - 101564430
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1177/2047487320905717
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med17&NEWS=N&AN=32106713
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med17&AN=32106713 

37. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 31820334
T1  - Effect of Smartphone-Based Telemonitored Exercise Rehabilitation among Patients with Coronary Heart Disease.
A1  - Song, Yanxin
A1  - Ren, Chuan
A1  - Liu, Ping
A1  - Tao, Liyuan
A1  - Zhao, Wei
A1  - Gao, Wei
Y1  - 2020//
Y2  - 20191209//
N2  - The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of telemonitored exercise rehabilitation on patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) in China. Ninety-six patients with stable CHD were included and analyzed (48 in telemonitored group and 48 in control group). All patients received routine follow-up, and patients in telemonitored group participated in smartphone-based telemonitored cardiac rehabilitation. Patients' demographic information, medical history, diagnosis and treatment of CHD, and laboratory results were collected. The difference of cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET), blood test, and echocardiographic parameters; exercise habits; control rate of blood lipid and blood glucose; and incidence of adverse events between the two groups during 6 months of follow-up was analyzed. After intervention, the subjects in the telemonitored group performed significantly better in VO2peak, exercise compliance, and some other parameters than those in the control group. Telemonitored exercise rehabilitation is an effective rehabilitation mode for CHD patients in China.
KW  - Beijing
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation
KW  - Coronary Disease/di [Diagnosis]
KW  - Coronary Disease/pp [Physiopathology]
KW  - *Coronary Disease/rh [Rehabilitation]
KW  - *Exercise Therapy
KW  - Exercise Tolerance
KW  - Female
KW  - Heart Rate
KW  - Humans
KW  - Male
KW  - Middle Aged
KW  - Mobile Applications
KW  - Oxygen Consumption
KW  - Prospective Studies
KW  - Recovery of Function
KW  - *Smartphone
KW  - *Telemedicine/is [Instrumentation]
KW  - Time Factors
KW  - Treatment Outcome
JF  - Journal of cardiovascular translational research
JA  - J Cardiovasc Transl Res
VL  - 13
IS  - 4
SP  - 659
EP  - 667
CY  - United States
M2  - Song, Yanxin. Department of Cardiology and Institute of Vascular Medicine, Peking University Third Hospital, NHC Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Molecular Biology and Regulatory Peptides, Key Laboratory of Molecular Cardiovascular Science, Ministry of Education, Beijing Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Receptors Research, Beijing, 100191, China.
M2  - Ren, Chuan. Department of Cardiology and Institute of Vascular Medicine, Peking University Third Hospital, NHC Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Molecular Biology and Regulatory Peptides, Key Laboratory of Molecular Cardiovascular Science, Ministry of Education, Beijing Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Receptors Research, Beijing, 100191, China.
M2  - Liu, Ping. Department of Cardiology and Institute of Vascular Medicine, Peking University Third Hospital, NHC Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Molecular Biology and Regulatory Peptides, Key Laboratory of Molecular Cardiovascular Science, Ministry of Education, Beijing Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Receptors Research, Beijing, 100191, China.
M2  - Tao, Liyuan. Research Center of Clinical Epidemiology, Peking University Third Hospital, Beijing, 100191, China.
M2  - Zhao, Wei. Department of Cardiology and Institute of Vascular Medicine, Peking University Third Hospital, NHC Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Molecular Biology and Regulatory Peptides, Key Laboratory of Molecular Cardiovascular Science, Ministry of Education, Beijing Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Receptors Research, Beijing, 100191, China. beate_vv@bjmu.edu.cn.
M2  - Zhao, Wei. Physical Examination Center, Peking University Third Hospital, Beijing, 100191, China. beate_vv@bjmu.edu.cn.
M2  - Gao, Wei. Department of Cardiology and Institute of Vascular Medicine, Peking University Third Hospital, NHC Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Molecular Biology and Regulatory Peptides, Key Laboratory of Molecular Cardiovascular Science, Ministry of Education, Beijing Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Receptors Research, Beijing, 100191, China.
SN  - 1937-5395
SN  - 1937-5387
M1  - 101468585
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s12265-019-09938-6
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med17&NEWS=N&AN=31820334
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med17&AN=31820334 

38. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 31543180
T1  - Can Older Adults Benefit from Smart Devices, Wearables, and Other Digital Health Options to Enhance Cardiac Rehabilitation?.
A1  - Redfern, Julie
Y1  - 2019//
Y2  - 20190702//
N2  - Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death and disease burden globally. Improving reach, access, and effectiveness of postdischarge care through cardiac rehabilitation and secondary prevention strategies is an international priority. The current proliferation of mobile technology has resulted in widespread development and availability of digital health interventions that can reduce cardiovascular risk. Text-messaging programs and apps have been shown to improve health outcomes. Other areas of research investigating the use of wearable devices are still emerging but lack robust data. Mobile and smartphone ownership is increasing among older populations, and digital health is not limited by age. Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
KW  - Aged
KW  - Aged, 80 and over
KW  - Australia
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation/is [Instrumentation]
KW  - Cardiac Rehabilitation/mt [Methods]
KW  - Cardiovascular Diseases/di [Diagnosis]
KW  - Cardiovascular Diseases/th [Therapy]
KW  - Computers, Handheld/sn [Statistics & Numerical Data]
KW  - Continuity of Patient Care
KW  - Coronary Artery Disease/di [Diagnosis]
KW  - *Coronary Artery Disease/rh [Rehabilitation]
KW  - Female
KW  - Geriatric Assessment/mt [Methods]
KW  - Hospitalization/sn [Statistics & Numerical Data]
KW  - Humans
KW  - Male
KW  - *Mobile Applications/sn [Statistics & Numerical Data]
KW  - *Outcome Assessment, Health Care
KW  - Quality of Life
KW  - Risk Assessment
KW  - *Smartphone/sn [Statistics & Numerical Data]
KW  - *Wearable Electronic Devices/sn [Statistics & Numerical Data]
JF  - Clinics in geriatric medicine
JA  - Clin Geriatr Med
VL  - 35
IS  - 4
SP  - 489
EP  - 497
CY  - United States
M2  - Redfern, Julie. University of Sydney, Westmead Applied Research Centre, Faculty of Medicine and Health; The George Institute for Global Health, UNSW Medicine, Sydney, Australia. Electronic address: julie.redfern@sydney.edu.au.
SN  - 1879-8853
SN  - 0749-0690
M1  - cln, 8603766
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cger.2019.07.004
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med16&NEWS=N&AN=31543180
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med16&AN=31543180 

39. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 31299903
T1  - The effect of mobile applications for improving adherence in cardiac rehabilitation: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
A1  - Xu, Linqi
A1  - Li, Feng
A1  - Zhou, Changli
A1  - Li, Jinwei
A1  - Hong, Chengcheng
A1  - Tong, Qian
Y1  - 2019//
Y2  - 20190712//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Despite of the established effectiveness, the acceptance and adherence of cardiac rehabilitation (CR) remains sub-optimal. Mobile technologies are increasingly used in promoting CR without any firm evidence of their safety and efficacy. This systematic review and meta-analysis were aimed to assess the effect of mobile applications as an intervention for improving adherence to CR., METHODS: Relevant studies were searched in PubMed, the Cochrane Library, Embase and Web of Science from inception to 29th December 2018. Eligible studies were the ones which used mobile applications as a stand-alone intervention or as the primary component for the intervention directed at improving CR adherence, without any limitations on outpatient or home-based CR., RESULTS: Eight studies were eligible for the systematic review including four randomized controlled trials (RCTs) as well as four before-after studies of which only one had control group. Four RCTs and 185 patients in experimental group were included in meta-analysis, which had evaluated the effect of mobile health applications on CR completion and had reported that the adherence of patients using mobile applications was 1.4 times higher than the control group (RR = 1.38; CI 1.16 to 1.65; P = 0.0003). Moreover, we also found mixed results in exercise capacity, mental health and quality of life., CONCLUSION: The use of mobile applications for improving the adherence of the CR might be effective. However, it appears to be in the initial stage of implementing mobile applications in CR and more research is essential to validate their effectiveness.
KW  - Adult
KW  - Aged
KW  - Attitude to Computers
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation/is [Instrumentation]
KW  - Cardiac Rehabilitation/px [Psychology]
KW  - Female
KW  - Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice
KW  - Heart Diseases/di [Diagnosis]
KW  - Heart Diseases/pp [Physiopathology]
KW  - Heart Diseases/px [Psychology]
KW  - *Heart Diseases/rh [Rehabilitation]
KW  - Humans
KW  - Male
KW  - Middle Aged
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - *Patient Compliance
KW  - Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic
KW  - *Smartphone
KW  - *Telemedicine/is [Instrumentation]
KW  - Treatment Outcome
JF  - BMC cardiovascular disorders
JA  - BMC Cardiovasc Disord
VL  - 19
IS  - 1
SP  - 166
CY  - England
M2  - Xu, Linqi. School of Nursing, Jilin University, Changchun, 130000, China.
M2  - Li, Feng. School of Nursing, Jilin University, Changchun, 130000, China.
M2  - Zhou, Changli. School of Nursing, Jilin University, Changchun, 130000, China.
M2  - Li, Jinwei. School of Nursing, Jilin University, Changchun, 130000, China.
M2  - Hong, Chengcheng. School of Health Sciences University of Manchester, M13 9PL, Manchester, UK.
M2  - Tong, Qian. The First Hospital of Jilin University, No 71, Xin Min Avenue, Changchun, 130000, China. tongqian187@aliyun.com.
SN  - 1471-2261
SN  - 1471-2261
M1  - 100968539
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s12872-019-1149-5
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med16&NEWS=N&AN=31299903
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med16&AN=31299903 

40. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 30678709
T1  - Effect of a lifestyle-focused electronic patient support application for improving risk factor management, self-rated health, and prognosis in post-myocardial infarction patients: study protocol for a multi-center randomized controlled trial.
A1  - Gonzalez, Manuel
A1  - Sjolin, Ingela
A1  - Back, Maria
A1  - Ogmundsdottir Michelsen, Halldora
A1  - Tanha, Tina
A1  - Sandberg, Camilla
A1  - Schiopu, Alexandru
A1  - Leosdottir, Margret
Y1  - 2019//
Y2  - 20190124//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Cardiac rehabilitation (CR) programs addressing risk factor management, educational interventions, and exercise contribute to reduce mortality after myocardial infarction (MI). However, the fulfillment of guideline-recommended CR targets is currently unsatisfactory. eHealth, i.e., the use of electronic communication for healthcare, including the use of mobile smartphone applications combined with different sensors and interactive computerized programs, offers a new array of possibilities to provide clinical care. The present study aims to assess the efficacy of a web-based application (app) designed to support persons in adhering to lifestyle advice and medication as a complement to traditional CR programs for improvement of risk factors and clinical outcomes in patients with MI compared with usual care., METHODS/DESIGN: An open-label multi-center randomized controlled trial is being conducted at different CR centers from three Swedish University Hospitals. The aim is to include 150 patients with MI < 75 years of age who are confident smartphone and/or Internet users. In addition to participation in CR programs according to the usual routine at each center, patients randomized to the intervention arm will receive access to the web-based app. A CR nurse reviews the patients' self-reported data twice weekly through a medical interface at the clinic. The primary outcome of the study will be change in submaximal exercise capacity (in watts) between 2 and 4 weeks after discharge and when the patient has completed his/her exercise program at the CR center, usually around 3-6 months post-discharge. Secondary outcomes include changes in self-reported physical activity, objectively assessed physical activity by accelerometry, self-rated health, dietary, and smoking habits, body mass index, blood pressure, blood lipids, and glucose/HbA1c levels between inclusion and follow-up visits during the first year post-MI. Additionally, we will assess uptake and adherence to the application, the number of CR staff contacts, and the incidence of cardiovascular events at 1 and 3 years after the MI. Patient recruitment started in 2016, and the first study results are expected in the beginning of 2019., DISCUSSION: The present study will add evidence to whether electronic communication can be used to improve traditional CR programs for patients after MI., TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03260582 . Retrospectively registered on 24 August 2017.
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation/mt [Methods]
KW  - Communication
KW  - Humans
KW  - *Life Style
KW  - Multicenter Studies as Topic
KW  - *Myocardial Infarction/rh [Rehabilitation]
KW  - Outcome Assessment, Health Care
KW  - Prognosis
KW  - *Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic
KW  - Research Design
KW  - Risk Factors
KW  - Sample Size
KW  - Smartphone
KW  - *Telemedicine
JF  - Trials
JA  - Trials
VL  - 20
IS  - 1
SP  - 76
CY  - England
M2  - Gonzalez, Manuel. Heart Center and Department of Public Health and Clinical Medicine, Cardiology, Umea University, Umea, Sweden.
M2  - Gonzalez, Manuel. Commonwealth Scientific Research and Industrial Organisation (CSIRO), Brisbane, Australia.
M2  - Sjolin, Ingela. Department of Clinical Sciences Malmo, Lund University, Malmo, Sweden.
M2  - Sjolin, Ingela. Department of Cardiology, Skane University Hospital, 205 02, Malmo, Sweden.
M2  - Back, Maria. Department of Medical and Health Sciences, Division of Physiotherapy, Linkoping University, Linkoping, Sweden.
M2  - Back, Maria. Department of Occupational Therapy and Physiotherapy, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.
M2  - Ogmundsdottir Michelsen, Halldora. Department of Clinical Sciences Malmo, Lund University, Malmo, Sweden.
M2  - Ogmundsdottir Michelsen, Halldora. Department of Cardiology, Skane University Hospital, 205 02, Malmo, Sweden.
M2  - Tanha, Tina. Department of Clinical Sciences Malmo, Lund University, Malmo, Sweden.
M2  - Tanha, Tina. Department of Cardiology, Skane University Hospital, 205 02, Malmo, Sweden.
M2  - Sandberg, Camilla. Heart Center and Department of Public Health and Clinical Medicine, Cardiology, Umea University, Umea, Sweden.
M2  - Sandberg, Camilla. Department of Community Medicine and Rehabilitation, Physiotherapy Umea University, Umea, Sweden.
M2  - Schiopu, Alexandru. Department of Clinical Sciences Malmo, Lund University, Malmo, Sweden.
M2  - Schiopu, Alexandru. Department of Cardiology, Skane University Hospital, 205 02, Malmo, Sweden.
M2  - Leosdottir, Margret. Department of Clinical Sciences Malmo, Lund University, Malmo, Sweden. margret.leosdottir@med.lu.se.
M2  - Leosdottir, Margret. Department of Cardiology, Skane University Hospital, 205 02, Malmo, Sweden. margret.leosdottir@med.lu.se.
SN  - 1745-6215
SN  - 1745-6215
M1  - 101263253
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s13063-018-3118-1
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med16&NEWS=N&AN=30678709
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med16&AN=30678709 

41. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 30217377
T1  - Feasibility of a Smartphone-enabled Cardiac Rehabilitation Program in Male Veterans With Previous Clinical Evidence of Coronary Heart Disease.
A1  - Harzand, Arash
A1  - Witbrodt, Bradley
A1  - Davis-Watts, Michelle L
A1  - Alrohaibani, Alaaeddin
A1  - Goese, David
A1  - Wenger, Nanette K
A1  - Shah, Amit J
A1  - Zafari, Abarmard Maziar
Y1  - 2018//
Y2  - 20180804//
N2  - Cardiac rehabilitation (CR) is recommended for patients with coronary heart disease, however, participation among veterans remains poor. Smartphones may facilitate data transfer and communication between patients and providers, among other benefits. We evaluated the feasibility of a smartphone-enabled CR program in a population of veterans. Qualifying veterans were prospectively enrolled in a single-arm, nonrandomized feasibility study of a smartphone-enabled, home-based CR program, featuring an app with daily reminders to exercise, log vitals, and review educational materials. A coach remotely monitored patients through an online dashboard and scheduled telephone visits. Clinical end points were assessed as an exploratory aim. After 21 veterans provided informed consent, 18 were enrolled and successfully completed at least 30days of the program; 13 completed the entire 12-week intervention. Mean (standard deviation) age was 62 (7) years and 96% were male. Program completers logged a mean (standard deviation) of 3.5 (1.4) exercise sessions and 150 (86) exercise minutes per week. The majority (84%) of program completers reported being satisfied overall with the program. Mean functional capacity improved by 1.0 metabolic equivalents (5.3 to 6.3, 95% confidence interval 0.3 to 1.7; p=0.008) and mean systolic blood pressure at rest improved by 9.6mm Hg (mean difference 9.6, 95% confidence interval -19.0 to -0.7; p=0.049) among completers. Smartphone-enabled, home-based CR is feasible in veterans with heart disease and is associated with moderate to high levels of engagement and patient satisfaction. Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.
KW  - Aged
KW  - Blood Pressure
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation/mt [Methods]
KW  - *Coronary Disease/rh [Rehabilitation]
KW  - Feasibility Studies
KW  - Humans
KW  - Male
KW  - Middle Aged
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - Patient Participation
KW  - Patient Satisfaction
KW  - Prospective Studies
KW  - Sampling Studies
KW  - *Self Care
KW  - *Smartphone
KW  - Systole
KW  - United States/ep [Epidemiology]
KW  - Veterans
JF  - The American journal of cardiology
JA  - Am J Cardiol
VL  - 122
IS  - 9
SP  - 1471
EP  - 1476
CY  - United States
M2  - Harzand, Arash. Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia; Atlanta Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Decatur, Georgia.
M2  - Witbrodt, Bradley. Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia.
M2  - Davis-Watts, Michelle L. Atlanta Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Decatur, Georgia.
M2  - Alrohaibani, Alaaeddin. Atlanta Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Decatur, Georgia.
M2  - Goese, David. Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia.
M2  - Wenger, Nanette K. Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia; Atlanta Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Decatur, Georgia; Grady Memorial Hospital, Atlanta, Georgia.
M2  - Shah, Amit J. Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia; Atlanta Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Decatur, Georgia; Department of Epidemiology, Emory University Rollins School of Public Health, Atlanta, Georgia. Electronic address: ajshah3@emory.edu.
M2  - Zafari, Abarmard Maziar. Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia; Atlanta Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Decatur, Georgia.
SN  - 1879-1913
SN  - 0002-9149
M1  - 3dq, 0207277
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.amjcard.2018.07.028
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med15&NEWS=N&AN=30217377
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med15&AN=30217377 

42. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 29990228
T1  - Evaluation of an mHealth-Based Adjunct to Outpatient Cardiac Rehabilitation.
A1  - Rosario, Michael B Del
A1  - Lovell, Nigel H
A1  - Fildes, Jennifer
A1  - Holgate, Katie
A1  - Yu, Jennifer
A1  - Ferry, Cate
A1  - Schreier, Gunter
A1  - Ooi, Sze-Yuan
A1  - Redmond, Stephen J
Y1  - 2018//
Y2  - 20171211//
N2  - A pilot study was conducted to determine if a smartphone-based adjunct to standard care could increase the completion rate of a cardiac rehabilitation program (CRP). Based on historical completion rates, 66 participants who were about to commence a hospital-based CRP were randomized so that half received three devices embedded with near-field communication, namely, a smartphone [pre-installed with an application (app) designed specifically for cardiac rehabilitation], portable blood pressure monitor, and weight scale while completing the CRP. The completion rate among participants who were randomized to the intervention group was 88%, compared to 67% in the control group ( = 0.038). This combined with the week-to-week frequency with which participants in the intervention group measured their blood pressure ( 5/week) demonstrated the ability of the intervention to increase the proportion of patients who completed the CRP. No significant differences were found between the treatment groups for the measurements taken at baseline and prior to discharge from the CRP. A statistically significant correlation ( = 0.472; = 0.013) was found between the average time participants walked each day (as estimated via the smartphone app) and participants' six minute walking distance (6MWD) before they were discharged from the CRP (a clinically validated measurement).
KW  - Adolescent
KW  - Adult
KW  - Cardiac Rehabilitation/is [Instrumentation]
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation/mt [Methods]
KW  - Female
KW  - Humans
KW  - Male
KW  - Middle Aged
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - Monitoring, Ambulatory/is [Instrumentation]
KW  - *Monitoring, Ambulatory/mt [Methods]
KW  - Patient Satisfaction
KW  - Pilot Projects
KW  - Smartphone
KW  - *Telemedicine/mt [Methods]
KW  - Walking/ph [Physiology]
KW  - Young Adult
JF  - IEEE journal of biomedical and health informatics
JA  - IEEE j. biomed. health inform.
VL  - 22
IS  - 6
SP  - 1938
EP  - 1948
CY  - United States
SN  - 2168-2208
SN  - 2168-2194
M1  - 101604520
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1109/JBHI.2017.2782209
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med15&NEWS=N&AN=29990228
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med15&AN=29990228 

43. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 29415680
T1  - Smartphones in the secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease: a systematic review.
A1  - Hamilton, Sandra J
A1  - Mills, Belynda
A1  - Birch, Eleanor M
A1  - Thompson, Sandra C
Y1  - 2018//
Y2  - 20180207//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Cardiac Rehabilitation (CR) and secondary prevention are effective components of evidence-based management for cardiac patients, resulting in improved clinical and behavioural outcomes. Mobile health (mHealth) is a rapidly growing health delivery method that has the potential to enhance CR and heart failure management. We undertook a systematic review to assess the evidence around mHealth interventions for CR and heart failure management for service and patient outcomes, cost effectiveness with a view to how mHealth could be utilized for rural, remote and Indigenous cardiac patients., METHODS: A comprehensive search of databases using key terms was conducted for the years 2000 to August 2016 to identify randomised and non-randomised trials utilizing smartphone functionality and a model of care that included CR and heart failure management. Included studies were assessed for quality and risk of bias and data extraction was undertaken by two independent reviewers., RESULTS: Nine studies described a mix of mHealth interventions for CR (5 studies) and heart failure (4 studies) in the following categories: feasibility, utility and uptake studies; and randomised controlled trials. Studies showed that mHealth delivery for CR and heart failure management is feasible with high rates of participant engagement, acceptance, usage, and adherence. Moreover, mHealth delivery of CR was as effective as traditional centre-based CR (TCR) with significant improvement in quality of life. Hospital utilization for heart failure patients showed inconsistent reductions. There was limited inclusion of rural participants., CONCLUSION: Mobile health delivery has the potential to improve access to CR and heart failure management for patients unable to attend TCR programs. Feasibility testing of culturally appropriate mHealth delivery for CR and heart failure management is required in rural and remote settings with subsequent implementation and evaluation into local health care services.
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation/is [Instrumentation]
KW  - Cardiac Rehabilitation/mt [Methods]
KW  - Cardiovascular Diseases/di [Diagnosis]
KW  - Cardiovascular Diseases/mo [Mortality]
KW  - Cardiovascular Diseases/pp [Physiopathology]
KW  - *Cardiovascular Diseases/th [Therapy]
KW  - Culturally Competent Care
KW  - Delivery of Health Care, Integrated
KW  - Heart Failure/di [Diagnosis]
KW  - Heart Failure/mo [Mortality]
KW  - Heart Failure/pp [Physiopathology]
KW  - *Heart Failure/rh [Rehabilitation]
KW  - Humans
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - Quality of Life
KW  - Recovery of Function
KW  - Risk Factors
KW  - *Secondary Prevention/is [Instrumentation]
KW  - Secondary Prevention/mt [Methods]
KW  - *Smartphone
KW  - *Telemedicine/is [Instrumentation]
KW  - Telemedicine/mt [Methods]
KW  - Treatment Outcome
JF  - BMC cardiovascular disorders
JA  - BMC Cardiovasc Disord
VL  - 18
IS  - 1
SP  - 25
CY  - England
M2  - Hamilton, Sandra J. Western Australian Centre for Rural Health, University of Western Australia, 35 Stirling Highway, Crawley, WA, 6009, Australia. sandy.hamilton@uwa.edu.au.
M2  - Mills, Belynda. Western Australian Centre for Rural Health, University of Western Australia, 35 Stirling Highway, Crawley, WA, 6009, Australia.
M2  - Birch, Eleanor M. Western Australian Centre for Rural Health, University of Western Australia, 35 Stirling Highway, Crawley, WA, 6009, Australia.
M2  - Birch, Eleanor M. Georgetown University, 3700 O St NW, Washington, DC, 20057, USA.
M2  - Thompson, Sandra C. Western Australian Centre for Rural Health, University of Western Australia, 35 Stirling Highway, Crawley, WA, 6009, Australia.
SN  - 1471-2261
SN  - 1471-2261
M1  - 100968539
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s12872-018-0764-x
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med15&NEWS=N&AN=29415680
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med15&AN=29415680 

44. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 29313363
T1  - Effectiveness, acceptability and usefulness of mobile applications for cardiovascular disease self-management: Systematic review with meta-synthesis of quantitative and qualitative data.
T3  - Comment in: Eur J Prev Cardiol. 2018 Jun;25(9):974-975 PMID: 29569940 [https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29569940]
A1  - Coorey, Genevieve M
A1  - Neubeck, Lis
A1  - Mulley, John
A1  - Redfern, Julie
Y1  - 2018//
Y2  - 20180109//
N1  - Comment in (CIN)
N2  - Background Mobile technologies are innovative, scalable approaches to reducing risk of cardiovascular disease but evidence related to effectiveness and acceptability remains limited. We aimed to explore the effectiveness, acceptability and usefulness of mobile applications (apps) for cardiovascular disease self-management and risk factor control. Design Systematic review with meta-synthesis of quantitative and qualitative data. Methods Comprehensive search of multiple databases (Medline, Embase, CINAHL, SCOPUS and Cochrane CENTRAL) and grey literature. Studies were included if the intervention was primarily an app aimed at improving at least two lifestyle behaviours in adults with cardiovascular disease. Meta-synthesis of quantitative and qualitative data was performed to review and evaluate findings. Results Ten studies of varying designs including 607 patients from five countries were included. Interventions targeted hypertension, heart failure, stroke and cardiac rehabilitation populations. Factors that improved among app users were rehospitalisation rates, disease-specific knowledge, quality of life, psychosocial well-being, blood pressure, body mass index, waist circumference, cholesterol and exercise capacity. Improved physical activity, medication adherence and smoking cessation were also characteristic of app users. Appealing app features included tracking healthy behaviours, self-monitoring, disease education and personalised, customisable content. Small samples, short duration and selection bias were noted limitations across some studies, as was the relatively low overall scientific quality of evidence. Conclusions Multiple behaviours and cardiovascular disease risk factors appear modifiable in the shorter term with use of mobile apps. Evidence for effectiveness requires larger, controlled studies of longer duration, with emphasis on process evaluation data to better understand important system- and patient-level characteristics.
KW  - *Cardiovascular Diseases/th [Therapy]
KW  - *Cell Phone
KW  - Humans
KW  - Life Style
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - *Quality Improvement
KW  - *Quality of Life
KW  - *Self Care/mt [Methods]
KW  - Text Messaging
JF  - European journal of preventive cardiology
JA  - Eur J Prev Cardiolog
VL  - 25
IS  - 5
SP  - 505
EP  - 521
CY  - England
M2  - Coorey, Genevieve M. 1 The George Institute for Global Health Australia, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Coorey, Genevieve M. 2 Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Neubeck, Lis. 3 School of Health and Social Care, Edinburgh Napier University, UK.
M2  - Neubeck, Lis. 4 Sydney Nursing School, University of Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Mulley, John. 1 The George Institute for Global Health Australia, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Redfern, Julie. 1 The George Institute for Global Health Australia, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Redfern, Julie. 2 Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, Australia.
SN  - 2047-4881
SN  - 2047-4873
M1  - 101564430
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1177/2047487317750913
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med15&NEWS=N&AN=29313363
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med15&AN=29313363 

45. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 27455029
T1  - An Overview of the Application of Wearable Technology to Nursing Practice.
A1  - Wilson, Daira
Y1  - 2017//
Y2  - 20160725//
N2  - PROBLEM: Wearable technology is here and nurses are going to be increasingly responsible for patients who use it. Most research in this area has been done in other fields and now is the time for nurses to be more involved in this promising technology to improve patient lives., METHODS: This paper synthesizes the current state of wearable technology, a brief history of nurse satisfaction with technology, current research about wearable technology, and implications for its future use in nursing., FINDINGS: Other areas in health care are already employing wearable technology to improve gait in people with Parkinson's disease, provide automatic defibrillation in cardiac patients, and monitor poststroke rehabilitation. Nurses can be on the front lines of designing and patenting new ideas to improve the lives of their patients., CONCLUSIONS: Nurses have always adopted the newest technologies such as electronic health records, electronic medication administration records, and simulation experiences in education. Wearable technology is the next step in this journey and the possible uses are endless. Involving patients in their own care is a major goal of nursing and more research is needed to connect patients and their caregivers to the benefits of wearable technology. Copyright © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
KW  - *Attitude to Health
KW  - Electronic Health Records/is [Instrumentation]
KW  - Electronic Health Records/td [Trends]
KW  - Equipment and Supplies/st [Standards]
KW  - Humans
KW  - Medication Systems/td [Trends]
KW  - *Mobile Applications/st [Standards]
KW  - Mobile Applications/sn [Statistics & Numerical Data]
KW  - *Mobile Applications/td [Trends]
KW  - Monitoring, Physiologic/is [Instrumentation]
KW  - Monitoring, Physiologic/mt [Methods]
KW  - *Nursing Care/mt [Methods]
KW  - Nursing Care/st [Standards]
JF  - Nursing forum
JA  - Nurs Forum
VL  - 52
IS  - 2
SP  - 124
EP  - 132
CY  - United States
M2  - Wilson, Daira. Doctoral Student at the University of Texas at Tyler, Tyler, TX.
M2  - Wilson, Daira. Professor of Nursing at Austin Community College, Austin, TX.
SN  - 1744-6198
SN  - 0029-6473
M1  - o95, 0401006
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1111/nuf.12177
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med14&NEWS=N&AN=27455029
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med14&AN=27455029 

46. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 31066684
T1  - Feasibility of a Mobile Phone App to Promote Adherence to a Heart-Healthy Lifestyle: Single-Arm Study.
A1  - Lunde, Pernille
A1  - Nilsson, Birgitta Blakstad
A1  - Bergland, Astrid
A1  - Bye, Asta
Y1  - 2019//
Y2  - 20190419//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Long-term maintenance of preventive activities is fundamental for achieving improved outcomes in cardiac rehabilitation (CR). Despite this, it has been shown to be a major challenge for many patients to follow recommendations and thereby adhere to a heart-healthy lifestyle. Mobile phone apps have been emphasized as potential tools to promote preventive activities after attendance in a CR program. Before commencing a trial to assess the potential effect of using an app to promote long-term adherence to preventive activities after attendance in CR, a study to assess if it is feasible to use an app is warranted., OBJECTIVE: The goal of the research is to assess if it is feasible to use a mobile phone app for promoting and monitoring patients' adherence to a heart-healthy lifestyle after CR., METHODS: The study included an experimental, pre-post single-arm trial lasting for 12 weeks. All patients received access to an app aimed to guide individuals to change or maintain a heart-healthy lifestyle. During the study period, patients received weekly, individualized monitoring through the app, based on their own goals. Feasibility outcomes assessed were recruitment rate, adherence to the app, resource requirements, and efficacy regarding capability to detect a change in quality of life, health status, and perceived goal achievement as well as evaluating ceiling and floor effect in these outcomes. Criteria for success were preset to be able to evaluate whether the app was feasible to use in a potential future RCT., RESULTS: In total, 71% (17/24) of the patients who completed CR were eligible for a potential RCT as well as for this study. All 14 patients included in the study used the app to promote preventive activities throughout the study. Satisfaction with the technology was high, and the patients found the technology-based follow-up intervention both useful and motivational. Ceiling effect was present in more than 20% of the patients in several domains of the questionnaires evaluating quality of life (36-Item Short Form Health Survey and COOP/WONCA functional health assessments) and health status (EQ-5D). Overall self-rated health status (EuroQol Visual Analog Scale) and perceived goal achievement were found to be outcomes able to detect a change., CONCLUSIONS: Individual follow-up through an app after attendance in CR is feasible. All patients used the app for preventive activities and found the app both useful and motivating. Several points of guidance from the patients in the study have been adopted and incorporated into the final design of the RCT now in the field. Copyright ©Pernille Lunde, Birgitta Blakstad Nilsson, Astrid Bergland, Asta Bye. Originally published in JMIR Formative Research (http://formative.jmir.org), 19.04.2019.
JF  - JMIR formative research
JA  - JMIR Form Res
VL  - 3
IS  - 2
SP  - e12679
CY  - Canada
M2  - Lunde, Pernille. Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, Oslo Metropolitan University, Oslo, Norway.
M2  - Nilsson, Birgitta Blakstad. Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, Oslo Metropolitan University, Oslo, Norway.
M2  - Nilsson, Birgitta Blakstad. Section for Physiotherapy, Division of Medicine, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
M2  - Bergland, Astrid. Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, Oslo Metropolitan University, Oslo, Norway.
M2  - Bye, Asta. Department of Nursing and Health Promotion, Faculty of Health Sciences, Oslo Metropolitan University, Oslo, Norway.
M2  - Bye, Asta. European Palliative Care Research Centre, Department of Oncology, Oslo University Hospital and Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
SN  - 2561-326X
SN  - 2561-326X
M1  - 101726394
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.2196/12679
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm4&NEWS=N&AN=31066684
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm4&AN=31066684 

47. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 30684426
T1  - MedFit App, a Behavior-Changing, Theoretically Informed Mobile App for Patient Self-Management of Cardiovascular Disease: User-Centered Development.
A1  - Duff, Orlaith
A1  - Walsh, Deirdre
A1  - Malone, Shauna
A1  - McDermott, Lauri
A1  - Furlong, Brona
A1  - O'Connor, Noel
A1  - Moran, Kieran
A1  - Woods, Catherine
Y1  - 2018//
Y2  - 20180427//
N2  - BACKGROUND: The MedFit app is designed to facilitate participation of people with cardiovascular disease (CVD) in an exercise-based rehabilitation program remotely. This paper details the development for the MedFit app., OBJECTIVE: The aim of this research was to develop a behavior change, theoretically informed exercise rehabilitation mobile app for adults with CVD by following the early stages of the formative research: development and feasibility testing., METHODS: Adhering to the mobile health (mHealth) development evaluation framework, the stages of the formative research process including (1) development and (2) feasibility were undertaken. The content and format of the MedFit app were developed based on (1) theory, (2) usability testing, and (3) content design., RESULTS: A systematic review of the literature was undertaken to identify the most appropriate theories from which to develop the app. This led to the creation of the MedFit app. The app went through iterative rounds of usability focus group testing with adults with CVD to provide feedback on the app. This process was framed by the unified theory of acceptance and use of technology model. Feedback was then translated into feasible technical improvements to be executed through close collaboration with the technical team, who adapted and made modifications to the app based on this codesign process., CONCLUSIONS: The formative research process of the app development involved theoretical underpinning, usability testing, and content design. mHealth interventions may play a key role in the future of health care, potentially addressing the barriers to participation in cardiac rehabilitation. This work will provide guidance for future research aiming to develop mobile apps by incorporating a best practice framework for mHealth intervention development and a user-centered design approach. Copyright ©Orlaith Duff, Deirdre Walsh, Shauna Malone, Lauri McDermott, Brona Furlong, Noel O'Connor, Kieran Moran, Catherine Woods. Originally published in JMIR Formative Research (http://formative.jmir.org), 27.04.2018.
JF  - JMIR formative research
JA  - JMIR Form Res
VL  - 2
IS  - 1
SP  - e8
CY  - Canada
M2  - Duff, Orlaith. Insight Centre for Data Analytics, Dublin City University, Dublin, Ireland.
M2  - Walsh, Deirdre. National University of Ireland, Galway, Ireland.
M2  - Malone, Shauna. Insight Centre for Data Analytics, Dublin City University, Dublin, Ireland.
M2  - McDermott, Lauri. Insight Centre for Data Analytics, Dublin City University, Dublin, Ireland.
M2  - Furlong, Brona. School of Health and Human Performance, Dublin City University, Dublin, Ireland.
M2  - O'Connor, Noel. Insight Centre for Data Analytics, Dublin City University, Dublin, Ireland.
M2  - Moran, Kieran. Insight Centre for Data Analytics, Dublin City University, Dublin, Ireland.
M2  - Moran, Kieran. School of Health and Human Performance, Dublin City University, Dublin, Ireland.
M2  - Woods, Catherine. Department of Physical Education and Sport Sciences, University of Limerick, Limerick, Ireland.
SN  - 2561-326X
SN  - 2561-326X
M1  - 101726394
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.2196/formative.9550
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm4&NEWS=N&AN=30684426
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm4&AN=30684426 

48. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 29335235
T1  - VA FitHeart, a Mobile App for Cardiac Rehabilitation: Usability Study.
A1  - Beatty, Alexis L
A1  - Magnusson, Sara L
A1  - Fortney, John C
A1  - Sayre, George G
A1  - Whooley, Mary A
Y1  - 2018//
Y2  - 20180115//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Cardiac rehabilitation (CR) improves outcomes for patients with ischemic heart disease or heart failure but is underused. New strategies to improve access to and engagement in CR are needed. There is considerable interest in technology-facilitated home CR. However, little is known about patient acceptance and use of mobile technology for CR., OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to develop a mobile app for technology-facilitated home CR and seek to determine its usability., METHODS: We recruited patients eligible for CR who had access to a mobile phone, tablet, or computer with Internet access. The mobile app includes physical activity goal setting, logs for tracking physical activity and health metrics (eg, weight, blood pressure, and mood), health education, reminders, and feedback. Study staff demonstrated the mobile app to participants in person and then observed participants completing prespecified tasks with the mobile app. Participants completed the System Usability Scale (SUS, 0-100), rated likelihood to use the mobile app (0-100), questionnaires on mobile app use, and participated in a semistructured interview. The Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology and the Theory of Planned Behavior informed the analysis. On the basis of participant feedback, we made iterative revisions to the mobile app between users., RESULTS: We conducted usability testing in 13 participants. The first version of the mobile app was used by the first 5 participants, and revised versions were used by the final 8 participants. From the first version to revised versions, task completion success rate improved from 44% (11/25 tasks) to 78% (31/40 tasks; P=.05), SUS improved from 54 to 76 (P=.04; scale 0-100, with 100 being the best usability), and self-reported likelihood of use remained high at 76 and 87 (P=.30; scale 0-100, with 100 being the highest likelihood). In interviews, patients expressed interest in tracking health measures ("I think it'll be good to track my exercise and to see what I'm doing"), a desire for introductory training ("Initially, training with a technical person, instead of me relying on myself"), and an expectation for sharing data with providers ("It would also be helpful to share with my doctor, it just being a matter of clicking a button and sharing it with my doctor")., CONCLUSIONS: With participant feedback and iterative revisions, we significantly improved the usability of a mobile app for CR. Patient expectations for using a mobile app for CR include tracking health metrics, introductory training, and sharing data with providers. Iterative mixed-method evaluation may be useful for improving the usability of health technology. Copyright ©Alexis L Beatty, Sara L Magnusson, John C Fortney, George G Sayre, Mary A Whooley. Originally published in JMIR Human Factors (http://humanfactors.jmir.org), 15.01.2018.
JF  - JMIR human factors
JA  - JMIR Hum Factors
VL  - 5
IS  - 1
SP  - e3
CY  - Canada
M2  - Beatty, Alexis L. Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System, Seattle, WA, United States.
M2  - Beatty, Alexis L. Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, United States.
M2  - Magnusson, Sara L. Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System, Seattle, WA, United States.
M2  - Magnusson, Sara L. Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, United States.
M2  - Fortney, John C. Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System, Seattle, WA, United States.
M2  - Fortney, John C. Department of Psychiatry, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, United States.
M2  - Sayre, George G. Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System, Seattle, WA, United States.
M2  - Whooley, Mary A. San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center, San Francisco, CA, United States.
M2  - Whooley, Mary A. Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, United States.
M2  - Whooley, Mary A. Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, United States.
SN  - 2292-9495
SN  - 2292-9495
M1  - 101666561
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.2196/humanfactors.8017
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm4&NEWS=N&AN=29335235
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm4&AN=29335235 

49. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 29066425
T1  - Mobile Technology Use Across Age Groups in Patients Eligible for Cardiac Rehabilitation: Survey Study.
A1  - Gallagher, Robyn
A1  - Roach, Kellie
A1  - Sadler, Leonie
A1  - Glinatsis, Helen
A1  - Belshaw, Julie
A1  - Kirkness, Ann
A1  - Zhang, Ling
A1  - Gallagher, Patrick
A1  - Paull, Glenn
A1  - Gao, Yan
A1  - Partridge, Stephanie Ruth
A1  - Parker, Helen
A1  - Neubeck, Lis
Y1  - 2017//
Y2  - 20171024//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Emerging evidence indicates mobile technology-based strategies may improve access to secondary prevention and reduce risk factors in cardiac patients. However, little is known about cardiac patients' use of mobile technology, particularly for health reasons and whether the usage varies across patient demographics., OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to describe cardiac patients' use of mobile technology and to determine variations between age groups after adjusting for education, employment, and confidence with using mobile technology., METHODS: Cardiac patients eligible for attending cardiac rehabilitation were recruited from 9 hospital and community sites across metropolitan and rural settings in New South Wales, Australia. Participants completed a survey on the use of mobile technology devices, features used, confidence with using mobile technology, willingness and interest in learning, and health-related use., RESULTS: The sample (N=282) had a mean age of 66.5 (standard deviation [SD] 10.6) years, 71.9% (203/282) were male, and 79.0% (223/282) lived in a metropolitan area. The most common diagnoses were percutaneous coronary intervention (33.3%, 94/282) and myocardial infarction (22.7%, 64/282). The majority (91.1%, 257/282) used at least one type of technology device, 70.9% (200/282) used mobile technology (mobile phone/tablet), and 31.9% (90/282) used all types. Technology was used by 54.6% (154/282) for health purposes, most often to access information on health conditions (41.4%, 117/282) and medications (34.8%, 98/282). Age had an important independent association with the use of mobile technology after adjusting for education, employment, and confidence. The youngest group (<56 years) was over 4 times more likely to use any mobile technology than the oldest (>69 years) age group (odds ratio [OR] 4.45, 95% CI 1.46-13.55), 5 times more likely to use mobile apps (OR 5.00, 95% CI 2.01-12.44), and 3 times more likely to use technology for health-related reasons (OR 3.31, 95% CI 1.34-8.18). Compared with the older group, the middle age group (56-69 years) was more than twice as likely to use any mobile technology (OR 2.42, 95% CI 1.27-4.59) and mobile technology for health-related purposes (OR 1.92, 95% CI 1.04-3.53). Participants who had completed high school were twice as likely to use mobile technology (OR 2.62, 95% CI 1.45-4.70), mobile apps (OR 2.05, 95% CI 1.09-3.84), and mobile technology for health-related reasons (OR 5.09, 95% CI 2.89-8.95) than those who had not completed high school. Associations were also present between participants living in metropolitan areas and mobile technology use (OR 1.07, 95% CI 1.07-4.24) and employment and mobile app use (OR 2.72, 95% CI 1.44-5.140)., CONCLUSIONS: Mobile technology offers an important opportunity to improve access to secondary prevention for cardiac patients, particularly when modified to suit subgroups. High levels of mobile technology use and health motivation need to be harnessed for secondary prevention. Copyright ©Robyn Gallagher, Kellie Roach, Leonie Sadler, Helen Glinatsis, Julie Belshaw, Ann Kirkness, Ling Zhang, Patrick Gallagher, Glenn Paull, Yan Gao, Stephanie Ruth Partridge, Helen Parker, Lis Neubeck. Originally published in JMIR Mhealth and Uhealth (http://mhealth.jmir.org), 24.10.2017.
JF  - JMIR mHealth and uHealth
JA  - JMIR Mhealth Uhealth
VL  - 5
IS  - 10
SP  - e161
CY  - Canada
M2  - Gallagher, Robyn. Charles Perkins Centre, Sydney Nursing School, University of Sydney, Camperdown, Australia.
M2  - Roach, Kellie. Ryde Hospital, Northern Sydney Local Health District, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Sadler, Leonie. Manly Hospital, Northern Sydney Local Health District, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Glinatsis, Helen. Royal North Shore Hospital, Northern Sydney Local Health District, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Belshaw, Julie. Hornsby Ku-ring-gai Hospital, Northern Sydney Local Health District, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Kirkness, Ann. Royal North Shore Hospital, Northern Sydney Local Health District, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Zhang, Ling. Charles Perkins Centre, Sydney Nursing School, University of Sydney, Camperdown, Australia.
M2  - Gallagher, Patrick. Charles Perkins Centre, Sydney Nursing School, University of Sydney, Camperdown, Australia.
M2  - Paull, Glenn. St George Hospital, South Eastern Sydney Local Health District, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Gao, Yan. St George Hospital, South Eastern Sydney Local Health District, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Partridge, Stephanie Ruth. Charles Perkins Centre, Sydney School of Public Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Parker, Helen. Charles Perkins Centre, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
M2  - Neubeck, Lis. School of Health and Social Care, Edinburgh Napier University, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.
SN  - 2291-5222
SN  - 2291-5222
M1  - 101624439
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.2196/mhealth.8352
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm4&NEWS=N&AN=29066425
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm4&AN=29066425 

50. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 28606895
T1  - Direct Adherence Measurement Using an Ingestible Sensor Compared With Self-Reporting in High-Risk Cardiovascular Disease Patients Who Knew They Were Being Measured: A Prospective Intervention.
T3  - Erratum in: JMIR Mhealth Uhealth. 2018 Apr 27;6(4):e13 PMID: 30578223 [https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30578223]
A1  - Thompson, David
A1  - Mackay, Teresa
A1  - Matthews, Maria
A1  - Edwards, Judith
A1  - Peters, Nicholas S
A1  - Connolly, Susan B
Y1  - 2017//
Y2  - 20170612//
N1  - Erratum in (EIN)
N2  - BACKGROUND: Use of appropriate cardioprotective medication is a cornerstone of cardiovascular disease prevention, but less-than-optimal patient adherence is common. Thus, strategies for improving adherence are recommended to adopt a multifaceted approach., OBJECTIVE: The objective of our study was to test a system comprising a biodegradable, ingestible sensor for direct measurement of medication ingestion in a group of patients at elevated cardiovascular risk attending a cardiac prevention and rehabilitation program., METHODS: In this prospective intervention trial in a single group of 21 patients running from April 2014 to June 2015, we measured adherence by self-report and adherence determined objectively by the system. The sensor emits a signal when it encounters the acidic environment of the stomach, detectable by an externally worn patch and linked software app. Longitudinal adherence data in the form of daily progress charts for sensed dosing events as compared with scheduled dosing are visible to patients on their tablet computer's medication dosing app, thus providing patients with continuous medication adherence feedback. We sought feedback on patient acceptability by questionnaire assessment. Participants used the system for the 12-week period of their cardiac prevention and rehabilitation program., RESULTS: Only 1 patient at initial assessment and 1 patient at end-of-program assessment reported often missing medication. The remaining patients reported never missing medication or had missing data. Only 12 (57%) of patients overall achieved system-determined adherence of 80% or more, and 3 patients had scores below 40%. Participants reported high levels of acceptability., CONCLUSIONS: This integrated system was well tolerated in a group of 21 patients over an appreciable time frame. Its ability to measure adherence reveals the sizeable disconnect between patient self-reported adherence and actual medication taking and has promising potential for clinical use as a tool to encourage better medication-taking behavior due to its ability to provide continuous patient-level feedback. Copyright ©David Thompson, Teresa Mackay, Maria Matthews, Judith Edwards, Nicholas Peters, Susan B Connolly. Originally published in JMIR Mhealth and Uhealth (http://mhealth.jmir.org), 12.06.2017.
JF  - JMIR mHealth and uHealth
JA  - JMIR Mhealth Uhealth
VL  - 5
IS  - 6
SP  - e76
CY  - Canada
M2  - Thompson, David. International Centre for Circulatory Health, National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom.
M2  - Mackay, Teresa. Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, London, United Kingdom.
M2  - Matthews, Maria. Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, London, United Kingdom.
M2  - Edwards, Judith. Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, London, United Kingdom.
M2  - Peters, Nicholas S. National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom.
M2  - Connolly, Susan B. National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom.
SN  - 2291-5222
SN  - 2291-5222
M1  - 101624439
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.2196/mhealth.6998
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm4&NEWS=N&AN=28606895
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm4&AN=28606895 

51. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 28268383
T1  - MobileHeart, a mobile smartphone-based application that supports and monitors coronary artery disease patients during rehabilitation.
A1  - Frederix, I
A1  - Sankaran, S
A1  - Coninx, K
A1  - Dendale, P
Y1  - 2016//
N2  - Conventional center-based cardiac rehabilitation adherence is poor, adversely affecting long-term efficacy. Innovative strategies such as telerehabilitation are perceived as promising alternatives to improve care delivery. This paper presents the results of prior and ongoing work on the design and development of MobileHeart, a telemedical smartphone-based application to be used in secondary prevention for ischemic heart disease patients. Its constituent components are discussed separately, the minimal necessary cardiovascular monitoring requirements are elaborated in more detail. The results are offered starting from a clinical perspective to stress its relevance in the establishment of scientifically/medically sound programs.
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation
KW  - Coronary Artery Disease/pp [Physiopathology]
KW  - *Coronary Artery Disease/rh [Rehabilitation]
KW  - Humans
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - *Monitoring, Physiologic/is [Instrumentation]
KW  - Secondary Prevention
KW  - *Smartphone
KW  - *Telemedicine/is [Instrumentation]
JF  - Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Annual International Conference
JA  - Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc
VL  - 2016
SP  - 513
EP  - 516
CY  - United States
SN  - 2694-0604
SN  - 2375-7477
M1  - 101763872
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1109/EMBC.2016.7590752
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med13&NEWS=N&AN=28268383
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med13&AN=28268383 

52. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 27551969
T1  - Smartphone-Based Cardiac Rehabilitation Program: Feasibility Study.
A1  - Chung, Heewon
A1  - Ko, Hoon
A1  - Thap, Tharoeun
A1  - Jeong, Changwon
A1  - Noh, Se-Eung
A1  - Yoon, Kwon-Ha
A1  - Lee, Jinseok
Y1  - 2016//
Y2  - 20160823//
N2  - We introduce a cardiac rehabilitation program (CRP) that utilizes only a smartphone, with no external devices. As an efficient guide for cardiac rehabilitation exercise, we developed an application to automatically indicate the exercise intensity by comparing the estimated heart rate (HR) with the target heart rate zone (THZ). The HR is estimated using video images of a fingertip taken by the smartphone's built-in camera. The introduced CRP app includes pre-exercise, exercise with intensity guidance, and post-exercise. In the pre-exercise period, information such as THZ, exercise type, exercise stage order, and duration of each stage are set up. In the exercise with intensity guidance, the app estimates HR from the pulse obtained using the smartphone's built-in camera and compares the estimated HR with the THZ. Based on this comparison, the app adjusts the exercise intensity to shift the patient's HR to the THZ during exercise. In the post-exercise period, the app manages the ratio of the estimated HR to the THZ and provides a questionnaire on factors such as chest pain, shortness of breath, and leg pain during exercise, as objective and subjective evaluation indicators. As a key issue, HR estimation upon signal corruption due to motion artifacts is also considered. Through the smartphone-based CRP, we estimated the HR accuracy as mean absolute error and root mean squared error of 6.16 and 4.30bpm, respectively, with signal corruption due to motion artifacts being detected by combining the turning point ratio and kurtosis.
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation/is [Instrumentation]
KW  - Cardiac Rehabilitation/mt [Methods]
KW  - *Exercise/ph [Physiology]
KW  - Feasibility Studies
KW  - *Heart/ph [Physiology]
KW  - *Heart Rate/ph [Physiology]
KW  - Humans
KW  - Smartphone
JF  - PloS one
JA  - PLoS ONE
VL  - 11
IS  - 8
SP  - e0161268
CY  - United States
M2  - Chung, Heewon. Department of Biomedical Engineering, Wonkwang University College of Medicine, Iksan, 54538, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Ko, Hoon. Department of Biomedical Engineering, Wonkwang University College of Medicine, Iksan, 54538, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Thap, Tharoeun. Department of Biomedical Engineering, Wonkwang University College of Medicine, Iksan, 54538, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Jeong, Changwon. Imaging Science based Lung and Bone Disease Research Center, Wonkwang University, 460 Iksandeaero, Iksan, Jeonbuk, 54538, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Noh, Se-Eung. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Wonkwang University Colledge of Medicine, Iksan, 54538, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Yoon, Kwon-Ha. Department of Radiology, Wonkwang University Colledge of Medicine, Iksan, 54538, Republic of Korea.
M2  - Lee, Jinseok. Department of Biomedical Engineering, Wonkwang University College of Medicine, Iksan, 54538, Republic of Korea.
SN  - 1932-6203
SN  - 1932-6203
M1  - 101285081
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0161268
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med13&NEWS=N&AN=27551969
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med13&AN=27551969 

53. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 27262389
T1  - mHealth in Cardiovascular Health Care.
A1  - Chow, Clara K
A1  - Ariyarathna, Nilshan
A1  - Islam, Sheikh Mohammed Shariful
A1  - Thiagalingam, Aravinda
A1  - Redfern, Julie
Y1  - 2016//
Y2  - 20160511//
N2  - Mobile health (mHealth) has been defined as medical and public health practice supported by mobile devices, such as mobile phones, patient monitoring devices and personal digital assistants. Cardiovascular mHealth is, arguably, leading the mHealth space, through innovation, research and implementation, and especially in the areas of prevention, cardiac rehabilitation and education. mHealth includes simple strategies, such as the use of short message service (SMS) or text messages in successful short-term smoking-cessation, weight loss and diabetes management programs. The recent Australian Tobacco, Exercise and Diet Messages (TEXT ME) randomised clinical trial addressed multiple cardiovascular risk factors. mHealth can also involve more complex strategies, such as smart phone applications (apps), global positioning systems (GPS) and Bluetooth technologies. Although many apps could be considered suitable for primary prevention, they are largely unregulated and most are not evidence-based. Some have been well-developed, such as the Food Switch app and an iPhone electrocardiogram (ECG) system. The "explosion" of apps has driven initiatives such as the Mobile Applications Rating Scale (MARS). More recently, the use of sensors to monitor and provide feedback to patients and healthcare providers is being explored. With almost two billion people currently owning a Smartphone, and 50% of adults (globally) predicted to own one by 2018, mHealth provides the prospect of delivering efficient, affordable healthcare services to widespread populations both locally and globally. In particular, it has the potential to reduce socioeconomic disparity and alleviate the burden of cardiovascular disease. There is now a need to rethink traditional health service structures and bioengineering capacity, to ensure mHealth systems are also safe, secure and robust. Copyright © 2016 Australian and New Zealand Society of Cardiac and Thoracic Surgeons (ANZSCTS) and the Cardiac Society of Australia and New Zealand (CSANZ). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
KW  - Adult
KW  - *Cardiovascular Diseases/pp [Physiopathology]
KW  - Cardiovascular Diseases/th [Therapy]
KW  - Electrocardiography/is [Instrumentation]
KW  - Electrocardiography/mt [Methods]
KW  - Electrocardiography/td [Trends]
KW  - *Electrocardiography
KW  - Female
KW  - Humans
KW  - Male
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic
KW  - *Smartphone
KW  - Telemedicine/is [Instrumentation]
KW  - Telemedicine/mt [Methods]
KW  - Telemedicine/td [Trends]
KW  - *Telemedicine
JF  - Heart, lung & circulation
JA  - Heart Lung Circ
VL  - 25
IS  - 8
SP  - 802
EP  - 7
CY  - Australia
M2  - Chow, Clara K. The George Institute for Global Health, Sydney, NSW, Australia; Medicine, Westmead Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia; Medicine, Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia. Electronic address: cchow@georgeinstitute.org.au.
M2  - Ariyarathna, Nilshan. Medicine, Westmead Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
M2  - Islam, Sheikh Mohammed Shariful. The George Institute for Global Health, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
M2  - Thiagalingam, Aravinda. Medicine, Westmead Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia; Medicine, Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
M2  - Redfern, Julie. The George Institute for Global Health, Sydney, NSW, Australia; Medicine, Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
SN  - 1444-2892
SN  - 1443-9506
M1  - 100963739
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.hlc.2016.04.009
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med13&NEWS=N&AN=27262389
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med13&AN=27262389 

54. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 26262068
T1  - Making an APPropriate Care Program for Indigenous Cardiac Disease: Customization of an Existing Cardiac Rehabilitation Program.
A1  - Bradford, DanaKai
A1  - Hansen, David
A1  - Karunanithi, Mohan
Y1  - 2015//
N2  - Cardiovascular disease is a major health problem for all Australians and is the leading cause of death in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders. In 2010, more then 50% of all heart attack deaths were due to repeated events. Cardiac rehabilitation programs have been proven to be effective in preventing the recurrence of cardiac events and readmission to hospitals. There are however, many barriers to the use of these programs. To address these barriers, CSIRO developed an IT enabled cardiac rehabilitation program delivered by mobile phone through a smartphone app and succesfully trialed it in an urban general population. If these results can be replicated in Indigenous populations, the program has the potential to significantly improve life expectancy and help close the gap in health outcomes. The challenge described in this paper is customizing the existing cardiac health program to make it culturally relevant and suitable for Indigenous Australians living in urban and remote communities.
KW  - Australia
KW  - *Cardiac Rehabilitation/mt [Methods]
KW  - Health Promotion/mt [Methods]
KW  - *Health Services, Indigenous/og [Organization & Administration]
KW  - Humans
KW  - Internet
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - *Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander
KW  - Risk Reduction Behavior
KW  - *Self Care/mt [Methods]
KW  - Smartphone
KW  - Software Design
KW  - *Telemedicine/mt [Methods]
KW  - Therapy, Computer-Assisted/mt [Methods]
JF  - Studies in health technology and informatics
JA  - Stud Health Technol Inform
VL  - 216
SP  - 343
EP  - 7
CY  - Netherlands
M2  - Bradford, DanaKai. Australian eHealth Research Centre, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Organisation (CSIRO), Australia.
M2  - Hansen, David. Australian eHealth Research Centre, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Organisation (CSIRO), Australia.
M2  - Karunanithi, Mohan. Australian eHealth Research Centre, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Organisation (CSIRO), Australia.
SN  - 1879-8365
SN  - 0926-9630
M1  - ck1, 9214582
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med12&NEWS=N&AN=26262068
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med12&AN=26262068 

55. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 25801714
T1  - The mobile revolution--using smartphone apps to prevent cardiovascular disease.
A1  - Neubeck, Lis
A1  - Lowres, Nicole
A1  - Benjamin, Emelia J
A1  - Freedman, S Ben
A1  - Coorey, Genevieve
A1  - Redfern, Julie
Y1  - 2015//
Y2  - 20150324//
N2  - Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality globally. Mobile technology might enable increased access to effective prevention of CVDs. Given the high penetration of smartphones into groups with low socioeconomic status, health-related mobile applications might provide an opportunity to overcome traditional barriers to cardiac rehabilitation access. The huge increase in low-cost health-related apps that are not regulated by health-care policy makers raises three important areas of interest. Are apps developed according to evidenced-based guidelines or on any evidence at all? Is there any evidence that apps are of benefit to people with CVD? What are the components of apps that are likely to facilitate changes in behaviour and enable individuals to adhere to medical advice? In this Review, we assess the current literature and content of existing apps that target patients with CVD risk factors and that can facilitate behaviour change. We present an overview of the current literature on mobile technology as it relates to prevention and management of CVD. We also evaluate how apps can be used throughout all age groups with different CVD prevention needs.
KW  - *Cardiovascular Diseases/pc [Prevention & Control]
KW  - *Cell Phone
KW  - Evidence-Based Medicine/mt [Methods]
KW  - Health Behavior
KW  - Health Promotion/mt [Methods]
KW  - Humans
KW  - Mobile Applications/lj [Legislation & Jurisprudence]
KW  - Mobile Applications/st [Standards]
KW  - *Mobile Applications
JF  - Nature reviews. Cardiology
JA  - Nat Rev Cardiol
VL  - 12
IS  - 6
SP  - 350
EP  - 60
CY  - England
M2  - Neubeck, Lis. Sydney Nursing School, Level 2, Building D17, Charles Perkins Centre, University of Sydney, Camperdown, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.
M2  - Lowres, Nicole. Sydney Medical School, Edward Ford Building (A27), University of Sydney, Camperdown, Sydney, NSW 2206, Australia.
M2  - Benjamin, Emelia J. Boston University Schools of Medicine and Public Health, The Framingham Heart Study, 73 Mount Wayte Avenue, Suite 2, Framingham, MA 01702-5827, USA.
M2  - Freedman, S Ben. Department of Cardiology 3W, Concord Hospital, Hospital Road, Concord, NSW 2139, Australia.
M2  - Coorey, Genevieve. The George Institute for Global Health, University of Sydney, Level 10 KGV Building, Missenden Road, Camperdown, NSW 2050, Australia.
M2  - Redfern, Julie. The George Institute for Global Health, University of Sydney, Level 10 KGV Building, Missenden Road, Camperdown, NSW 2050, Australia.
SN  - 1759-5010
SN  - 1759-5002
M1  - 101500075
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nrcardio.2015.34
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med12&NEWS=N&AN=25801714
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med12&AN=25801714 

56. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 25217039
T1  - Using mobile technology to support lower-salt food choices for people with cardiovascular disease: protocol for the SaltSwitch randomized controlled trial.
A1  - Eyles, Helen
A1  - McLean, Rebecca
A1  - Neal, Bruce
A1  - Doughty, Robert N
A1  - Jiang, Yannan
A1  - Ni Mhurchu, Cliona
Y1  - 2014//
Y2  - 20140912//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of early death worldwide, responsible for an estimated 29% of all global deaths. Reducing salt intake lowers blood pressure and risk of secondary cardiac events. However, identifying low salt foods can be challenging. SaltSwitch is a simple smartphone application (app) that enables shoppers to scan the barcode of packaged foods and receive an immediate, interpretive, traffic light nutrition label on the screen, along with suggestions for healthier lower-salt alternatives. A growing body of evidence suggests mobile technologies can support healthy behaviour change. However, robust evidence for the impact of smartphone interventions is lacking. This manuscript outlines the rationale and methods for a randomized controlled trial designed to determine the effectiveness of SaltSwitch in supporting people with CVD to make lower-salt food choices., DESIGN/METHODS: A 6-week, two-arm, parallel, randomized controlled trial is being undertaken in New Zealand (2 weeks baseline and 4 weeks intervention). Three hundred adults aged 40 years and older with CVD and their main household shoppers are recruited from research lists, cardiac rehabilitation clinics, and communities in Auckland. Participants are randomized to receive either the SaltSwitch smartphone app or no intervention (control). Randomisation is stratified by ethnicity and age. The primary outcome is the salt content of household food purchases. Secondary outcomes are the saturated fat and energy content of household food purchases, household food expenditure, use and acceptability of the SaltSwitch app by shoppers, and urinary sodium and blood pressure of participants with CVD. Ambulatory blood pressure and potential longer-term impact (12 weeks) of SaltSwitch will be assessed in sub-studies (n ~ 40 and n ~ 20, respectively). Household purchases of salt and other nutrients will be assessed using till receipt data electronically linked with branded food composition data., DISCUSSION: The results of the SaltSwitch trial will determine the effectiveness, use and acceptability of a smartphone application to support lower salt food choices and secondary prevention of CVD., TRIAL REGISTRATION: ACTRN12614000206628. Registered 30 March 2014.
KW  - Adolescent
KW  - Adult
KW  - *Blood Pressure
KW  - Blood Pressure Monitoring, Ambulatory
KW  - *Cardiovascular Diseases/pc [Prevention & Control]
KW  - *Cell Phone
KW  - Choice Behavior
KW  - *Diet, Sodium-Restricted
KW  - Female
KW  - Health Behavior
KW  - *Health Promotion/mt [Methods]
KW  - Humans
KW  - Male
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - New Zealand
KW  - Outcome Assessment, Health Care
KW  - Research Design
KW  - Risk
KW  - *Sodium Chloride, Dietary/ad [Administration & Dosage]
KW  - Sodium Chloride, Dietary/ur [Urine]
JF  - BMC public health
JA  - BMC Public Health
VL  - 14
SP  - 950
CY  - England
M2  - Eyles, Helen. National Institute for Health Innovation, University of Auckland, Private Bag 92019, Auckland 1142, New Zealand. h.eyles@auckland.ac.nz.
SN  - 1471-2458
SN  - 1471-2458
M1  - 100968562
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1471-2458-14-950
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med11&NEWS=N&AN=25217039
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med11&AN=25217039 

57. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 24866355
T1  - Utility and efficacy of a smartphone application to enhance the learning and behavior goals of traditional cardiac rehabilitation: a feasibility study.
A1  - Forman, Daniel E
A1  - LaFond, Karen
A1  - Panch, Trishan
A1  - Allsup, Kelly
A1  - Manning, Kenneth
A1  - Sattelmair, Jacob
Y1  - 2014//
N2  - PURPOSE: Most eligible patients do not participate in traditional clinic-based cardiac rehabilitation (CR) despite well-established benefits. Novel approaches to overcome logistic obstacles and increase efficiencies of learning, behavior modification, and exercise surveillance may increase CR participation. In an observational study, the feasibility and utility of a mobile smartphone application for CR, Heart Coach (HC), were assessed as part of standard care. Ultimately, innovative CR models incorporating HC may facilitate better CR usage and value., METHODS: Twenty-six patients enrolled in CR installed HC. Over the next 30 days, they were prompted by HC to complete a daily "task list" that included medications, walking, education (text and videos), and surveys. Cardiac rehabilitation providers monitored each patient's progress through a HC-based Web dashboard and also sent them personalized feedback and support. Completion of the tasks and feedback (qualitative and quantitative) from patients and clinicians were tracked., RESULTS: Patients engaged with HC 90% of days during the study period, with uniformly favorable impact on compliance and adherence. Eighty-three percent of patients reported a positive/very positive HC experience. Providers reported that HC enhanced their provision of therapy by improving communication, clinical insight, patient participation, and program efficiency., CONCLUSIONS: Integrating a mobile care delivery platform into CR was feasible, safe, and agreeable to patients and clinicians. It enhanced patient perceptions of CR care and physician perceptions of the CR caregiving process. Mobile-enabled technologies hold promise to extend the quality and reach of CR, and to better achieve contemporary accountable care goals.
KW  - Adult
KW  - Aged
KW  - *Cell Phone
KW  - Feasibility Studies
KW  - Female
KW  - *Goals
KW  - *Health Behavior
KW  - *Heart Diseases/rh [Rehabilitation]
KW  - Humans
KW  - Male
KW  - Middle Aged
KW  - *Mobile Applications
KW  - Patient Compliance
KW  - *Patient Education as Topic/mt [Methods]
KW  - Pilot Projects
JF  - Journal of cardiopulmonary rehabilitation and prevention
JA  - J Mol Signal
VL  - 34
IS  - 5
SP  - 327
EP  - 34
CY  - United States
M2  - Forman, Daniel E. Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts (Dr Forman); VA Boston Healthcare System, New England Geriatrics, Research, Education and Clinical Center, Boston, Massachusetts (Dr Forman, Ms Allsup, and Mr Manning); Department of Cardiac and Pulmonary Rehabilitation, South Shore Hospital, South Weymouth, Massachusetts (Ms LaFond); Massachusetts Association of Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation (Ms LaFond), Falmouth; and Wellframe Inc, Boston, Massachusetts (Drs Panch and Sattelmair).
SN  - 1932-751X
SN  - 1932-7501
M1  - 101291247
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1097/HCR.0000000000000058
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med11&NEWS=N&AN=24866355
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med11&AN=24866355 

58. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 24185949
T1  - Using mobile technology for cardiac rehabilitation: a review and framework for development and evaluation.
A1  - Beatty, Alexis L
A1  - Fukuoka, Yoshimi
A1  - Whooley, Mary A
Y1  - 2013//
Y2  - 20131101//
KW  - *Cardiology/is [Instrumentation]
KW  - Cardiology/mt [Methods]
KW  - *Cell Phone
KW  - Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice
KW  - Heart Diseases/di [Diagnosis]
KW  - Heart Diseases/px [Psychology]
KW  - *Heart Diseases/rh [Rehabilitation]
KW  - Humans
KW  - Mobile Applications
KW  - Motivation
KW  - Patient Compliance
KW  - Program Development
KW  - Program Evaluation
KW  - *Telemedicine/is [Instrumentation]
KW  - Telemedicine/mt [Methods]
KW  - Treatment Outcome
JF  - Journal of the American Heart Association
JA  - J Am Heart Assoc
VL  - 2
IS  - 6
SP  - e000568
CY  - England
M2  - Beatty, Alexis L. Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA.
SN  - 2047-9980
SN  - 2047-9980
M1  - 101580524
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.1161/JAHA.113.000568
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=med10&NEWS=N&AN=24185949
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=med10&AN=24185949 

59. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 28582235
T1  - Measurement and Data Transmission Validity of a Multi-Biosensor System for Real-Time Remote Exercise Monitoring Among Cardiac Patients.
A1  - Rawstorn, Jonathan C
A1  - Gant, Nicholas
A1  - Warren, Ian
A1  - Doughty, Robert Neil
A1  - Lever, Nigel
A1  - Poppe, Katrina K
A1  - Maddison, Ralph
Y1  - 2015//
Y2  - 20150320//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Remote telemonitoring holds great potential to augment management of patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) and atrial fibrillation (AF) by enabling regular physiological monitoring during physical activity. Remote physiological monitoring may improve home and community exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation (exCR) programs and could improve assessment of the impact and management of pharmacological interventions for heart rate control in individuals with AF., OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to evaluate the measurement validity and data transmission reliability of a remote telemonitoring system comprising a wireless multi-parameter physiological sensor, custom mobile app, and middleware platform, among individuals in sinus rhythm and AF., METHODS: Participants in sinus rhythm and with AF undertook simulated daily activities, low, moderate, and/or high intensity exercise. Remote monitoring system heart rate and respiratory rate were compared to reference measures (12-lead ECG and indirect calorimeter). Wireless data transmission loss was calculated between the sensor, mobile app, and remote Internet server., RESULTS: Median heart rate (-0.30 to 1.10 b.min-1) and respiratory rate (-1.25 to 0.39 br.min-1) measurement biases were small, yet statistically significant (all P<=.003) due to the large number of observations. Measurement reliability was generally excellent (rho=.87-.97, all P<.001; intraclass correlation coefficient [ICC]=.94-.98, all P<.001; coefficient of variation [CV]=2.24-7.94%), although respiratory rate measurement reliability was poor among AF participants (rho=.43, P<.001; ICC=.55, P<.001; CV=16.61%). Data loss was minimal (<5%) when all system components were active; however, instability of the network hosting the remote data capture server resulted in data loss at the remote Internet server during some trials., CONCLUSIONS: System validity was sufficient for remote monitoring of heart and respiratory rates across a range of exercise intensities. Remote exercise monitoring has potential to augment current exCR and heart rate control management approaches by enabling the provision of individually tailored care to individuals outside traditional clinical environments. Copyright ©Jonathan C Rawstorn, Nicholas Gant, Ian Warren, Robert Neil Doughty, Nigel Lever, Katrina K Poppe, Ralph Maddison. Originally published in JMIR Rehabilitation and Assistive Technology (http://rehab.jmir.org), 20.03.2015.
JF  - JMIR rehabilitation and assistive technologies
JA  - JMIR Rehabil Assist Technol
VL  - 2
IS  - 1
SP  - e2
CY  - Canada
M2  - Rawstorn, Jonathan C. National Institute for Health Innovation, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
M2  - Rawstorn, Jonathan C. Department of Sport and Exercise Science, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
M2  - Gant, Nicholas. Department of Sport and Exercise Science, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
M2  - Warren, Ian. Department of Computer Science, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
M2  - Doughty, Robert Neil. Department of Medicine, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
M2  - Lever, Nigel. Department of Medicine, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
M2  - Poppe, Katrina K. Department of Medicine, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
M2  - Maddison, Ralph. National Institute for Health Innovation, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
SN  - 2369-2529
SN  - 2369-2529
M1  - 101703412
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.2196/rehab.3633
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm3&NEWS=N&AN=28582235
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm3&AN=28582235 

60. 
TY  - JOUR
ID  - 25098320
T1  - Mobile apps in cardiology: review.
A1  - Martinez-Perez, Borja
A1  - de la Torre-Diez, Isabel
A1  - Lopez-Coronado, Miguel
A1  - Herreros-Gonzalez, Jesus
Y1  - 2013//
Y2  - 20130724//
N2  - BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular diseases are the deadliest diseases worldwide, with 17.3 million deaths in 2008 alone. Among them, heart-related deaths are of the utmost relevance; a fact easily proven by the 7.25 million deaths caused by ischemic heart disease alone in that year. The latest advances in smartphones and mHealth have been used in the creation of thousands of medical apps related to cardiology, which can help to reduce these mortality rates., OBJECTIVE: The aim of this paper is to study the literature on mobile systems and applications currently available, as well as the existing apps related to cardiology from the leading app stores and to then classify the results to see what is available and what is missing, focusing particularly on commercial apps., METHODS: Two reviews have been developed. One is a literature review of mobile systems and applications, retrieved from several databases and systems such as Scopus, PubMed, IEEE Xplore, and Web of Knowledge. The other is a review of mobile apps in the leading app stores, Google play for Android and Apple's App Store for iOS., RESULTS: Search queries up to May 2013 located 406 papers and 710 apps related to cardiology and heart disease. The most researched section in the literature associated with cardiology is related to mobile heart (and vital signs) monitoring systems and the methods involved in the classification of heart signs in order to detect abnormal functions. Other systems with a significant number of papers are mobile cardiac rehabilitation systems, blood pressure measurement, and systems for the detection of heart failure. The majority of apps for cardiology are heart monitors and medical calculators. Other categories with a high number of apps are those for ECG education and interpretation, cardiology news and journals, blood pressure tracking, heart rate monitoring using an external device, and CPR instruction. There are very few guides on cardiac rehabilitation and apps for the management of the cardiac condition, and there were no apps that assist people who have undergone a heart transplant., CONCLUSIONS: The distribution of work in the field of cardiology apps is considerably disproportionate. Whereas some systems have significant research and apps are available, other important systems lack such research and lack apps, even though the contribution they could provide is significant.
JF  - JMIR mHealth and uHealth
JA  - JMIR Mhealth Uhealth
VL  - 1
IS  - 2
SP  - e15
CY  - Canada
M2  - Martinez-Perez, Borja. University of Valladolid, Department of Signal Theory and Communications, and Telematics Engineering, University of Valladolid, Valladolid, Spain. borja.martinez@uva.es.
SN  - 2291-5222
SN  - 2291-5222
M1  - 101624439
DO  - https://dx.doi.org/10.2196/mhealth.2737
L2  - http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&PAGE=reference&D=pmnm3&NEWS=N&AN=25098320
ER  -  

Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation: https://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&D=pmnm3&AN=25098320 


